We still think tech is the dominant
theme of this bull market.
>> Equity earnings will always drive the
market.
>> The concentration in S&P has gotten
pretty high.
>> There could be a near-term correction.
>> It'll be a broader rally from here going
forward.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Well,
coming into Monday, crude inching lower.
Iran claiming major progress following
peace talks with the US just days away
from getting the latest read on
inflation in America. Treasury yields
are kicking off the week near the highs
of the year, the 2-year through 420. And
Bank of America now looking for 75 basis
points of hikes this year.
>> Yeah, that's follows on from what we saw
from Deutsche Bank with 225 basis point
rate hikes coming later this year. All
of this comes at a time where you see
two-year yields at the highest levels
they've been since February of 2025,
detaching from oil prices. This isn't
just an oil story. It is a story of
hawkishness by central bankers. The war
Fed is being viewed as decidedly
hawkish. Yield curve flattening.
Question, how far will they actually go?
>> If you're not going to offer forward
guidance, be careful who you outsource
it to. Later on this morning, we'll hear
from Governor Waller. Later this week,
we'll hear from Governor Williams. And I
just wonder whether they'll be as
reluctant to offer forward guidance
around this Fed's next move
>> and whether people take their forward
guidance to actually having the clout
that it has in the past. In other words,
we don't have an understanding of what
Wars' power over the Federal Reserve
actually is at this point. I hear
there's committee over that there. And I
really do wonder how much some of these
uh Fed members are going to defer to the
committees, the five committees that
potentially are going to study things
like how they are going to speak to the
public. In the meantime, there's so many
questions around whether this is the
right read given the fact that right now
people are taking this as unabashedly
hawkish. Nine out of 18 members voting
for the next boom to be a rate hike.
Nonetheless, who holds the power? Who
holds the cards at a time of committee
drama?
>> Interesting timing for all of this.
We've got economists Deutsche Bank, Bank
of America lining up for rate hike calls
later this year just as crude drops into
the 70s. Creek this morning. Brent 79,
WTI around 75 and claiming major
progress around talks that no one really
on Wall Street wants to hear about
anymore.
>> No one wants to hear about the fact of
the matter is when you look at these
negotiations in Switzerland is really
they just agreed to keep talking. They
now enter, as the vice president called
it, these technical talks. There was a
line of communication that they've
established between Tyrron and
Washington to make sure there's no
misunderstanding. What matters for Wall
Street is the fact that more vessels and
more cargo and more product is getting
through. SenCom talked about that over
the weekend. And then this morning, what
you see is Iran actually ramping up what
they are openly sending out to the
market on US sanctioned vessels.
>> If there was a hierarchy of stories on
Wall Street that people didn't want to
talk about, Iran would be right up there
and the UK would be somewhere close
because people are sick to death of UK
politics as well. Crude is in the 70s.
Sterling this morning back to about 132.
Sterling's hardly moving. Crude's hardly
moving. These are the two stories people
really don't want to engage with this
morning, but let's engage with this one.
A new prime minister on the cards. We've
got a timet for all of this. Maybe as
soon as September, perhaps even sooner
than that with Prime Minister Kama
announcing his plans to step aside.
>> The likelihood is that Andy Bernham is
going to come in later this year.
Although even his camp is saying, "Hold
on a second. We need some time to get
some proposals that we can actually
deliver on. the markets not necessarily
uh responding to this although there
already has been a response just to put
into perspective the political
dysfunction and this goes on a broader
sphere other than just the UK but really
highlighted here since 2022 there have
been four prime ministers this would be
the fifth each one of them have lasted 2
years 3 years max one month minimum
question here how do you coales around
something that actually is going to be
lasting and that's going to come up with
proposals to fix the doom loop of oil of
of of uh what you see with borrowing
costs and what you see with the
currency.
>> Seventh prime minister since Brexit,
it's been really difficult when it comes
to UK politics and just a level of
dysfunction we have not seen. To your
point, Jonathan, though, we could see
someone sooner and an individual
speaking to Bloomberg is saying
potentially we can have a new prime
minister for July 17th or 18th if it's
only one candidate. And I think
everyone's going to be focused on is
there really going to be a contested
leadership race when it comes to is it
just going to be the mayor Bernham who's
now being signed in as an MP or
potentially other individuals going to
throw their name in their hats or just
maybe take other positions like the
chancellorship.
>> You mentioned Brexit. Let's go back to
that. It's almost 10 years to the day.
For a heartbeat that was a global story
for a number of weeks. Then it became a
European one for a number of years and
then it became a UK one. The Brits only
really the only country left really
talking about this anymore. This story
this morning is highly consequential for
the future of British politics and the
British economy. With that, there can be
no doubt of course, but it's
inconsequential for the rest of the
world and for global markets with one
exception, the bond market. If something
changes here, this can rattle fixed
income elsewhere, and I think we should
respect that. I have no idea what the
plans are of the incoming government,
what it looks like, whether it will be a
shift to the left, or whether this bond
market will push back ahead of time.
tens around 5% still 30s through that
level already this morning and I remind
you of the biggest failure of this
current government was about a year ago
when they tried to reform welfare and
the welfare bill became what was later
called the zombie bill because they
couldn't get it through parliament even
with an overwhelming majority that's
going to be the task this time around
for a new prime minister if this bond
market pushes back
>> and how much is this purely a UK story
at a time when developed markets around
the world are facing off similar
dynamics albeit not as extreme as what
we're seeing in the United Kingdom. But
the idea that debts deficits have
increased dramatically across the
developed markets and frankly nobody
wants to pay to actually reduce that
deficit and that has become an
increasing problem for the bond market.
>> Futures this morning, equity futures
down just a tenth of 1% on the S&P.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Lori Calvina of RBC with Wall Street
awaiting a fresh slate of economic data.
Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
Intelligence as the road map to a final
US Iran deal takes shape and we'll touch
base with Jordan Rochester of Missouo as
the British Prime Minister Kama
announcing his plans to resign. We begin
this hour with stocks little change
following two weeks of gains heading
into this week's inflation data. Lori
Coscina of RBC writing the sentiment
story has been one of mixed emotions
with takeaways varying depending on
which data set one is looking at. Lori
joins us now for more. Lori, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Does the bull case stand up to the rate
height debate at the moment? I I think
so as long as you have a moderate amount
of rate hikes. Um we talked about this
in our weekly a few weeks ago that
whether you're looking at it from the
perspective of the Fed taking rate uh
taking their interest rate up or 10 10
year bond yields moving up that when we
go back and we look at the history both
since 2022 on the bond yield side or if
we look back to 1990 and look at sort of
Fed moves over the context of 12-month
moves in the market everything in
moderation seems like something the
equity market can handle. If you go back
to 2021 2022, we priced in an enormous
amount of hikes. We had a massive move
up in 10-year bond yields. It was a real
regime change. We've been sort of stuck
in this bond yield envir environment on
the 10-year yield side between sort of
3.3 to 5%. If we stay contained in that
range, I think that we could have some
short-term indigestion in markets, but
still have a fairly good outlook over
the next 12 months. Similarly, if you go
back and you look at how stocks perform
in different hiking and cutting cycles,
um your best environment is when the Fed
does absolutely nothing. So, we can keep
our fingers crossed for that scenario.
But you tend to get like 13 to 14%
returns on both the hiking side and the
cutting side when you're seeing moves in
the 0 to 100 basis point range. So, as
long as we stay, you know, within say
twoish hikes over the next 12 months of
25 basis points, I think stocks will
ultimately be okay. They may not like it
in the short term. Lisa mentioned
Deutsche Bank looking for a call rate
hikes later this year. Bank of America
doing the same. That note just dropped
earlier on this morning. This call, this
conversation accelerated by this move in
energy, but energyy's dropped back to
the 70s. When you speak to the team at
RBC, how dependent is the outlook for
interest rates on what's happening in
the commodity market.
>> So Blakew on our US rates strategy team
uh handles the Fed call for us. He's not
currently looking for any Fed moves
though he has also written that his
conviction in that has come down and our
econ team has talked about how the next
move may be a hike rather than a cut. I
think there's a lot of fluidity in the
situation right now. One of the things
that came out in my meetings with
investors last week is just a lot of
uncertainty is in the air whether you're
looking at the path of the Fed going
forward, how the Fed is going to operate
going forward and frankly also this
situation in the Middle East in terms of
what that means for oil prices. What
should your assumption be over the next
12 months? I don't think a lot of people
know that, but that does have
reverberations in headline inflation.
One thing that Blake has really
emphasized to us internally is that he
hasn't really viewed the Fed policy rate
as the appropriate path or the
appropriate tool really to combat uh any
inflation emanating from oil prices, but
we do know of course that we have
inflation emanating from other sources
as well.
>> What's more important for the equity
market? Core PCE coming out on Thursday
or Micron earnings coming out on
Wednesday. I think that this is a
situation in the equity market where we
have very very strong earnings tailwinds
that are running up against very stiff
headwinds on the PE side and you tend to
get compression in the PE, right? When
you have higher inflation, higher
interest rates, but so far in our
modeling, it looks like the earnings
story is strong enough to offset those
headwinds from compression. So, I would
say right now earnings matter more. At
this point, a lot of people keep talking
about that and yet you take a look at
some of the earnings. They've been
driven by names that have pricing power.
There is a bit of push back on the
pricing side in a significant way from
hyperscalers and from other companies
that are realizing that there are some
limits we might be bumping up against.
At what point is that a tension that
needs to get resolved that could
potentially be a risk factor?
>> So, look, I think it is something that
investors are already thinking about and
digesting which takes some of the edge
off frankly. Um, I think we just have to
go through reporting season, right, and
hear what the latest commentary is from
companies. Um, one of the things we've
talked about is the capex cycle. And
we're getting a lot of questions on this
last week. A lot of that is hyperscaler
driven, is AI driven. Um, if you look at
rates of change on S&P 500 capex, you're
kind of hovering around peak-ike type
levels. But if you X out the top 10
names, we're in the very early stages of
a capex recovery cycle. So, can you
elongate the cycle as you get more
companies participating in the capex
boom? That's something we have to think
about given the tax bill that we saw
last year. So, we're still sorting
through a lot of these issues.
>> Are more companies going to be
participating when it comes to doing
better in the stock market given they
could put the Iran war behind them and
energy prices are moving much lower? So
I'll tell you then Marie last week um
the business roundt put out the CEO
confidence survey that they run and we
actually saw that tick up um and it was
on the strength of capex expectations
sales expectations hiring expectations
were pretty neutral but there's just
really been a clear contrast between say
investor sentiment which has been kind
of weak or meh um it's gotten a little
bit better recently but hasn't been that
fantastic. Um and then if you look at
the corporate side things are I wouldn't
say they're off to the races but are
still generally optimistic. So I think
we have to take some comfort from that
especially as we head into this next
reporting season.
>> Can I answer the question? Can I just
say Micron?
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Micron probably because I think
most economists understand where PCE
will probably come in after seeing CPI
and PPI in the last week.
>> Yeah. And how high expectations are from
Micron given the fact that it's rallied
like some 800% in the past year. I mean
it's insane. You start wondering can
they keep having this transfer of wealth
coming from hyperscalers to them. There
was a chart showing the divergence of
performance between the hyperscalers and
the chipmakers and it's bonkers. I mean,
it just shows what's going on right now
and it feels like maybe not totally
sustainable in perpetuity.
>> Sometimes you just can't please some
people and they'll say things like this
is as good as it gets, even if it is so
good. Have we seen peak as good as it
gets?
>> So, if you look at the rate of upward
revisions for either the semiconductor
companies or the S&P 500 in general, it
does look like we've sort of hit those
peak levels of earnings enthusiasm. If
we looked at the S&P 500, the rate of
upward revisions, I think it got to
around 89 90% recently at the high. The
high tends to be kind of in that 90 to
94% range. And in our latest update, it
ticked down to 86%. So these are all
very good numbers, right? You're still
generally seeing upgrades just slightly
slightly slower pace. If you look at the
semiconductors, we're still sort of
sitting at peak levels of upward
revisions. And so we've been talking a
lot to clients about this because I've
talked to a lot of people who have been
in the semiis names, who have been in
the AI theme. um you know a fair number
of people are doing well with that but
they're saying maybe I should be looking
around at other opportunities. So we
look at that chart and I say you know
this is a risk factor but I can't just
tell you to sit here and hold your nose
and sell because if you go back and look
in the past sometimes you sit at these
peak levels of upward revision for
multiple years. So we have to watch how
they move in time and I know that's not
a satisfactory answer. We're all
supposed to have crystal balls in this
business and predict what's going to
happen six months down the road
>> with certainty and conviction. But I I
do think in this Yeah, but I do think in
this p particular situation, we kind of
have to take it day by day.
>> Lori, it's great to have you with us.
She's going to stick with us. Lori
Cvcina of RBC equity futures this
morning down just a tenth of 1%. Lots of
news with your top stories with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie,
>> good morning John. Thank you. UK Prime
Minister Kier Starmer announcing his
resignation. His exit opening the door
for Britain's fifth premiere since 2022.
Former Manchester Mayor Andy Bernham
putting himself forward in the
leadership race.
Iran saying quote major progress was
made in all night talks with the US.
Talks will continue in Switzerland this
week with US Vice President JD Vance
leading Washington's delegation.
Chevron signing a 20-year deal with
Microsoft to provide natural gas fired
power for proposed West Texas data
center. The power plant is expected to
be operational by 2028. Microsoft is
doubling down on building data centers
to compete with Alphabet and Amazon. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Hey, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program,
negotiating peace with Iran.
>> What today really represents is the
beginning of a technical negotiation
that's not going to solve every
disagreement, but is going to allow us
to sit together as teams for the first
time really in history to figure out
what matters most to the respective
parties. Just around the corner, we'll
catch up with Colonel Weey Sanders of
Bloomberg Intelligence live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Check out Sterling this morning. Small
bounce of session lows. 13241 just
turning positive just moments ago off
the back of the following news. If
you're just waking up state side, maybe
not a material story to you yet. Might
be if things change in the bond market.
But as things stand, the British prime
minister laying out his timetable to
step aside and start a leadership
contest in the UK. The obvious person in
the mix is Andy Bernham, former mayor of
Manchester, set to become an MP,
throwing his name into the ring and
getting some support from West
Streeting, the former health secretary.
Maybe that opens the door to getting
away from having a messy leadership
contest and accelerating this process so
we don't have to wait around until
September. So, Sterling is stronger off
the back of this. You'll notice that
yields on guilts are a little bit lower
off the back of it, too. Just a little
bit lower. We're down by four basis
points or so on twos. 10's down by
something like three basis points. As
I've said repeatedly through the morning
so far, consequential for the UK,
inconsequential for the rest of the
world, unless you get a big upset in
this bond market. We don't see that this
morning over in the UK.
>> Yeah, let's see what the policies are.
But as you mentioned, West reading
saying and putting on X, I hope that
everyone else will back Andy to at least
eliminating some of the uncertainty
under the hood. That said, let's see the
proposals. Let's see what can actually
make the UK populace feel satisfied
longer than just two years.
>> What do you stand for? We'll catch up
with Lizzie Burden outside number 10
Down Street a little bit later this
morning. Futures on the S&P pulling back
by a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ up by 0.1. If you check out the
bond market this morning, yields near
the highs of the year state side at the
front end of the curve. Twos through
420. We're up four basis points this
morning. Even with this move in crude,
we're trading in the 70s on both WTI and
Brent. Brent at 79 this morning and
Savanis this morning negotiating peace
with Iran.
>> What today really represents is the
beginning of a technical negotiation
that's not going to solve every
disagreement, but is going to allow us
to sit together as teams for the first
time really in history to figure out
what matters most to the respective
parties. Can we turn over a new leaf?
Can we change relations in the Middle
East permanently?
>> So, here's the latest this morning. A
framework for a lasting peace deal
taking shape in Switzerland. The Iranian
foreign minister saying major progress
was made on Lebanon following allnight
talks. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall has the
latest. Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this
weekend marked the start of what's
expected to be a protracted process for
a finalized deal. We got this joint
statement early this morning from
mediators from Pakistan and Qatar that
said the US and Iran have established
what they are calling a highlevel
committee that will essentially oversee
the talks from here on out. We're then
also expecting working groups to be
established that will look to prioritize
nuclear issues, sanctions relief for
Iran and communication regarding the
strait of Hermuz after over the weekend
Iran said it was closing the waterway
and suspending talks amid a renewed
threat from President Trump to strike
the country if the Iranianbacked
militant group Hezbollah doesn't stop
attacking Israel. A person familiar with
the matter tells Bloomberg News that a
resolution to the fighting in Lebanon is
going to be absolutely essential towards
any broader progress in these
negotiations, even as Israel isn't a
party to these talks. It just
underscores another complicating factor
in these negotiations, which also of
course includes the long-term security
in the Strait of Hermuz. John, over the
weekend, President Trump told Fox News
in an interview that he has directly
warned Iran against imposing any sort of
fees after the 60-day extension after
we've heard it floated that we could see
something regarding navigational or
insuranceances, insurance services, uh,
be levied. It comes as traffic is
starting to pick up, though, of course,
well below pre-war levels. Sentcom said
55 ships carrying 17 million barrels of
oil transited through on Saturday.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
we'll have more from you later on this
morning. Joining us now is Colonel Wayne
Sanders of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Colonel, welcome to the program. Let's
build on Tyler's point. This is
important for financial markets. Don't
track the talks, follow the barrels. How
much crude is getting through the
straight right now?
>> Yeah, I think that uh I think you're
going to see this continue to uptick.
So, uh the amount of what you've seen
even on Saturday will continue to go up
as long as uh the the rhetoric is going
to happen, but I think what you're
actually trying to look at is where the
negotiations are. So, as the as the
barrels continue to push, as you're
going to continue to watch, right,
everybody's going to have their eyes on
the amount that's actually inside of the
straight itself right now, the
establishment of what they're calling
the hormuse hotline will actually help
from the deconliction. Uh so that as as
these uh these takers start going
through, you're going to be able to
continue to see us and Iran being able
to have that conversation deconlict so
that it's not something that reaches the
level of what we've seen in the past.
>> Before this agreement, it was about 600
vessels that were stuck. Do you know
what the number is now this morning?
>> I don't. Uh that's the one thing that
I've been trying to find out and I can't
uh I can't get it based off of what
SenCom is saying. The amount that's
actually picking up is actually the
really good sign here. Uh to be able to
actually level out some of the uh some
of the the pressure that's built up in
this place. Uh but I don't I don't
actually have that number at this time.
Is it fair to assume that the US is just
no longer enforcing sanctions on Iranian
crude given the fact that you have three
six million barrels on three US
sanctioned super tankers openly moving
now through the waterways?
>> I think it's probably a good indicator
at this point in time. Uh I I think that
especially during the 60-day
negotiation, right? You're seeing a lot
of a lot of leeway being given here in
throughout this process to be able to
show some good faith as they're moving
forward for this, right? You're seeing
some of that in terms of the the road
map for the next 60 days in terms of
what that's actually going to look like.
You actually see the Hormuz hotline like
I mentioned as well as the Lebanon
Lebanon deconliction deal uh the deep
confliction cell. I think all of these
key pieces are really playing a part
into this to where that sanction relief
is something that could potentially
stay.
>> Colonel, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for the update. Colonel Wayne
Sanders there of Bloomberg Intelligence.
The talks are ongoing of course, but is
the crude moving? Yes, more of it
slowly. Energy's back in the 70s. WTI
Brent this morning.
>> People are watching what people do, not
what they say. Right now, the saying has
been all over the place. And frankly, if
you listen on any given day, it's going
to be different. If the barrels are
actually increasing as they were over
the weekend, that tells the whole story.
>> Lori Cabino of Abc is still with us.
Lori, do you get questions on this
anymore from clients?
>> You know, I I will say in my Thursday
meetings, this was not the the number
one topic that came up, but it was
probably like number three or four on
the list, and it came up in the
inflation discussions, right? because
what are you assuming about oil prices
going forward and it was a little bit
different tact if you look at the Fed I
think we have uncertainty rising there I
think there's still a lot of uncertainty
on the Middle East conflict but it is
coming down a bit that being said
there's still a fair amount of anxiety
here and you know as I was listening uh
to the previous speaker um one of the
things I I sort of flashed back to was a
comment that was made to me on Thursday
where one of my clients said you know I
don't know what's going to happen you
know with this situation um I'm not
necessarily counting on you know all
done in terms of a peace deal but maybe
we're just going to have a period of
time where the oil flows and we can, you
know, re restore the stock piles. Um, so
I think sort of taking kind of a very,
you know, sort of tactical dayby-day,
you know, sort of view of things and
looking for reasons to be positive was
something that I noticed on on Thursday.
How much are people looking at the
pipeline effects of uh delayed oil
deliveries and just the sort of
prolonged protracted effects of higher
oil prices working their way through the
inflation data over the remainder of the
year versus say the inflation problem
being elsewhere aside from just oil?
>> So I'll say I may be pushing on this one
a little bit more than I'm getting the
inbound questions. When people ask me
about market risks, one of the things I
point out is that I think 2026 earnings
are going to be okay. that if there's
any risk to the earnings story from the
situation, I think it's probably on
2027. And my reason for that is
generally companies seem to be able to
manage through crises for a quarter or
two. And if you look back at 2018, 2019,
and 2022, 2023 when we had the first
tariff episode and the Russia Ukraine
war, we didn't really see any impact to
2018 and 2022 bottom-up consensus EPS
estimates after those conflicts broke
out. You saw a little bit of damage to
the 2022 numbers in the second half of
the year, but not a lot. What we did
though see was steadil steady decreases
on 2019 and 2023 bottomup EPS forecasts.
And as I think back to everything
companies have said since the war broke
out, it's been, you know, we've got
inventories, we've got hedges. Um, one
company said 6 to 12 months of hedges.
We've seen companies refer, you know,
I've seen some companies say we have a
year of poly, others have said we have a
couple of quarters. So, we do know those
things run out eventually. And that I
think is what, you know, I but frankly
I'm pushing that more on investors than
they're asking me about it. Lori, it's
good to see you. Thank you. Lori Cavsina
there of RBC. It comes up only in
conversations around inflation, and for
some people, it's not the major factor
in the outlook for inflation either,
which I find curious. We're back in the
70s on crude, and yet we're talking
about rate highs still at this Federal
Reserve.
>> And you can see that the two-year yield
and oil prices have diverged steadily
over the past trading sessions, few
trading sessions. Again, how much is the
inflation story hinged on oil prices and
how much is it hinged on semiconductor
use on other issues and the strength
frankly of earnings to continue to
outperform despite some of this pressure
>> crude in the 70s the 2-year to Lisa's
point through 420 we're high this
morning by some four basis points coming
up we'll get to that story out of the UK
Jordan Rochester of Missouo as K star
announces his plans to step down as the
British prime minister plus Yhira has
your morning movers this morning SpaceX
shares on track for a third straight day
of losses We're down this morning by
more than 5%. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Back-to-back weekly gains on the S&P 500
this morning down by just a tenth of 1%.
You're very familiar with the bull cage.
This from Stuart Kaiser of City. Very
bullish still on the outlook for
equities. Forward S&P EPS up 17% since
the start of the year. That's bullish.
The economic surprise index at a
three-year high. 3-month payroll growth
near 190K. Retail sales has been decent.
Anticipated equity supply, he calls it
real, but we remain positive on equity
markets. Can that view stand up to this
in the bond market? Another call this
morning, this time from Bank of America
for 75 basis points of hikes across
three meetings starting in September
from this Federal Reserve. The two-year
near the highs of the year.
>> Yeah. And the framing of the Bank of
America call is essentially that J.
Powell talked about risk management with
75 basis points of cuts last year. They
might take that risk management off the
table and might not have to cut rates
again through 2027 because of the
resilience of the underlying economy.
Can you have your cake and eat it too?
Given the fact that we have an economy
that is delivering these earnings,
accepting these price hikes potentially,
even with rates that now maybe aren't
restrictive, maybe they're
accommodative.
>> That's the front end of the story. Can
we bring up the bond board again? Just
look at twos versus tens. I know Lisa's
been doing this a lot over the last
week. That yield curve has been
flattening. I believe this is the fourth
consecutive session of yield curve
flattening. Twos versus 10. The gap
between the two now is under 30 basis
points. Now, the front end of the curve,
very simplistic, I know, but forgive me.
The front end of the curve, you're
pricing in what you think the Fed might
do. The longer end of the curve, you're
starting to think about the consequences
of that move. Twos versus 10, that
flattening we're starting to see, Bremo,
notable.
>> Are you taking some of the growth over
the longer term away from the market
with a more hawkish stance at the front
end? Is this verbal intervention given
the fact that this is actually lowering
the long end of the yield curve in a way
that a lot of people would like to see
for mortgages and for other types of
loans?
I there's a committee for that. I I'm
actually very curious about the
committees. I want to see what they
>> committ around this table. Committ There
going to be four committees around the
table of three and I think it's going to
be really interesting. I mean what do
they come with? What data are they
looking at? What does inflation mean?
>> Super difficult to unpack a lot of this
given the move we're seeing in crude at
the moment back in the 70s. But we'll do
our best. Want to turn to the UK. So
this is the setup this morning. Sterling
positive just on the pound this morning
13239 up by not even a tenth of 1%. Bit
of a rally, just a small one, coming
into the long end of the gill curve.
We're down about three or four basis
points on 10 to 480. The sequence of
things in the last, let's call it 2
hours. Over in the UK, the prime
minister Sakir Stramer announcing his
plans to resign, setting a timetable for
some kind of leadership contest. Then we
start to think about speed of the
leadership contests and substance of the
next leader, the policies, if you will.
on the speed. Andy Burnham, former mayor
of Manchester, a name that everyone's
familiar with by now, incoming MP,
throwing his name into the ring to
become the next leader of this party and
ultimately the prime minister. And then
getting support from the former House
Secretary, Wes Streeting, maybe opening
the door to a quicker process. That's
good for markets. Then we can focus on
policy, which might not be good for
markets.
>> Ultimately, this is going to have to
result in policy. And a lot of that's
going to be who is the chancellor of the
exeer, right? And that's been one big
question. It's not going to be Rachel
Reed. She's probably going to get
booted. So, who is going to come in and
take the lead in trying to remedy a very
difficult situation? We've already seen
Liz Truss, who lasted about a month as a
result of the pain that people were
unwilling to take and some of the
unpopular measures that she put out
there in her budget. This really is
where it's going to come down. The
chancellor of the exeer almost is more
important than who uh who the prime
minister will end up being.
>> Well, maybe it's going to be West
Streeting. He wrote an opinion piece in
the Financial Times just a week ago. He
said, "Social democracy is as much about
a successful market economy as is about
an active state. When labor forgets the
first part of that sentence, we and the
country lose." Throwing his hat maybe in
the ring.
>> So this is how I think the market will
look at things and we can talk to Lizzie
Burton about this in just a moment.
You've got Reeves less bad Milliband bad
and maybe streeting somewhere in between
for Chanter and what it means for
guilts. Is that fair this morning? I
think that's fair because ultimately
it's been priced in that it's worse than
it was before this all began, but not as
bad as it was in its darkest days.
>> Let's talk about stocks. We'll get back
to the UK in just a moment. 3 hours away
from the cash open. Some morning movers
with Yhara. Hey, Yhier.
>> Hi, John. Let's talk about the stock of
the moment. SpaceX shares uh are falling
in the pre-market. We'll get that board
up in just a minute. On track for a
third straight session of losses as we
continue to see more analysts. Uh there
we go. It is down nearly 4 and a.5% in
the pre-market as we continue to see
more analysts initiate coverage of the
stock. The latest is Key Bank with a
neutral rating saying they see plenty of
long-term opportunities. But in the near
term, the stock could be volatile. Uh as
investors continue to assess its worth
and as those lockup expirations start to
bring more shares into the market. Uh
meanwhile, it can't be a Monday without
some M&A news or possible M&A news. And
that's why Apogee Therapeutic shares are
rising more than 50% in the pre-market
after a report in the FT said that said
that AppV is closing in on a nearly 1
billion takeover of this biotech. It
would march AppV's largest acquisition
in years. And we end out a big mover to
the upside and that is Getty Images
soaring nearly 175% in the pre-market
after it struck a partnership a
multi-year partnership with Open AI.
Now, um it will bring Getty's library of
licensed images to chat GPT to try and
create more rigid rich rich uh more real
images. And it's an interesting turn for
Getty, which was a company uh seen as
being threatened by these AI generated
images. But if you can't beat them, join
them. John,
>> what a move. That is quite a move this
morning. Yhara, thank you. Appreciate
it. On our radar this morning, some of
our top stories. The US and Iran
agreeing to a roadmap for a final peace
deal with more talks scheduled this
week. Discussions hinging on a deal to
keep the strat formers open and to
ensure cooperation from Israel in
Lebanon. Elsewhere, China slapping
export controls on two US producers of
rare earths, blocking the company's
access to certain materials on national
security grounds. The decision largely
symbolic as both companies say they've
cut off supplies from China. And
finally, the UK Prime Minister Karma
stepping down after two years in the
role.
>> The question my party is asking now
is whether I am best placed to lead us
into the next general election. That is
why I will resign as leader of the
Labour Party.
>> Salma's exit opening the door for
Britain's fifth prime minister since
2022. The former Manchester mayor Andy
Bernham putting himself forward with the
backing of former health secretary West
Streeting. Joining us now from London,
Bloomberg's Lizzie Burden. Lizzy, good
morning. A lot happening already in the
last few hours.
>> Interestingly,
>> yeah, John, I was meters away from Karma
as he resigned his post as prime
minister. As you said, it's quite
remarkable that he won that landslide
victory only just two years ago. And yet
he had accepted his fate that his party
had concluded it would be better for
somebody else to represent Labour at the
next general election. That particularly
a pronounced conclusion after the
Makerfield special election. The results
coming in on Friday with a resounding
victory for Andy Bernham. Now Starmmer
set out a timetable that looked like he
would be in post for a handover in
September while a leadership contest
were to take place. But things could
move much faster than that. As you say,
some developments just in the past hour.
Andy Bernham, the former mayor of
Greater Manchester, now putting himself
forward as a leadership candidate. Wes
Streeting, the former health secretary,
backing Burnham, and this could
therefore be a one-horse race. We wonder
whether Streing would like to be
Bernham's chancellor. Of course, he's
more to the right of Burnham. It could
counter some of the left-wing uh
sentiment of Burnham. That could help in
the markets. Uh but Bernham is on his
way to London now to be sworn in again
as an MP. That's at 2:30 p.m. London
time. So about three hours from now. The
pound is on its way back up off these
latest developments. And the chance of
Bernham being the next prime minister
has risen on Poly Market to 96%.
Now John
>> Lizzie Burton with a very noisy report
coming out of the number 10 Down Street
just in front of number 10 following
that resignation coming from the British
Prime Minister. Lizzy, thank you.
Appreciate it. Jordan Rochester of
Missou writing the following. Burnham
wins either way according to polling.
His policy positions are clearly to the
left of stalma but lack detail on how
they would be achieved. Jordan Rochester
joins us now for more. Jordan, welcome
to the program sir. As you know the
nervousness in UK markets was less about
Sakir starama leaving. It was always
about the worries about what would
replace him. Jordan what comes next?
>> Well as you said John earlier in your
previous section it was about their
chancellor choice too. I think Burnham's
positions the market knows they're quite
expensive some of them especially the
full nationalization but in terms of the
next step John it's about how soon does
this contest take place we're kind of
getting the details of that and when
will it finish and how quickly could a
new PM be in place and if it is a
coronation essentially it's going to be
around 3 to four weeks similar timeline
to to when Theresa May took over from
David Cameron if there is a longer drawn
out contest and you're talking the sort
of August period into September and
there's some commentary uh commentary
this morning suggesting that Andy
Bernham hasn't yet got all of his plans
in place that so doesn't really want to
be a prime minister within three weeks.
He'd rather it be a little bit longer
and uh perhaps even in through to
September. Those are the timelines, but
let's just imagine it's in 3 weeks, then
it's about who the cabinet choices are.
And we get that within a 24 to 48 hour
whirlwind of of news. And as an Marie
suggested earlier, if Streeting has put
and he has he's put his name behind Andy
Burnham, does that make him more likely
to be chancellor? It could be a vet
Cooper as well, Shabbat Mammud. These
are other names that were being
considered as well as the the sort of
the dark horse Ed Milliband which is Ed
Milliban was once considered for prime
minister. So he's not the end of the
world for UK rates markets but that's
kind of how the commentary kind of
frames it but he is definitely to the
left of most of those other candidates.
So that is the one which leads to an
that sort of outcome a guilt selloff.
>> Jordan what's priced in because
ultimately it seems like there's not a
lot of action on the heels of some
pretty uh significant headlines this
morning. Well indeed. So essentially the
price action took place towards the end
of last week. Uh we had UK rates started
to sell off as it started to seem quite
likely after the Makerfield result which
was a very strong result for Andy
Bernham. It was supposed to be a a tight
contest between him and reform and it
was actually pretty gang busters over
20% lead. That suggests that as a as a
leader he could boost the Labour party's
fortunes because that's what politics is
all about. It's about getting elected.
um and the parties going behind that
sort of burn and momentum that if if you
look back over the past few months, the
writing has been on the wall for K Star
in the public opinion polls. He was
deemed to be the most uh sort of
unpopular prime minister in UK modern
history. So the writing's been done on
the wall, which has been a matter of
time. And the main reason why guilts
moved last week was because of that lead
that Andy Bernham had in the Mayfield.
But apart from that, the bigger picture
is okay, that's the politics, but what
about the data? What about the Bank of
England? Where's oil prices going? And
helping rates a little bit this morning.
Is oil coming off the off the sort of
recent levels slightly thanks to
progress being made in US Iran talks.
Well, Jordan, to that point, how much is
this story a very specific story for a a
political sort in the UK versus a
broader macro story that suggests
something bigger about bond and FX
markets?
>> Well, the specific part is all these
policy details and how much guilt can
sell off versus treasuries versus bonds.
So I think going forward if you want to
take a bearish view on the UK you need
to do it as a spread versus US or Europe
because the broader picture is that
yields have come down thanks to the US
Iran war ending but the broader picture
this the UK slots in to actually
something that's quite similar which is
fiscal spending is now potentially being
entertained again even though the UK has
been boxed in by these fiscal rules
could they be redefined and the policy
agenda that Andy Bernham has probably
needs the fiscal rules to be tweaked in
a way at least on capital expenditure so
that feeds in through to the bigger
picture US is spending on the one big
beautiful bill. Japan's doing a
consumption tax on food potentially.
You've got Germany's defense spending
from uh just the previous year and an
infrastructure thing through to the UK
uh thinking about public uh utility
nationalization,
better spending on NHS, healthcare, etc.
So more fiscal spending, it definitely
slots into a broader theme.
>> The head of one of Britain's biggest
trade unions had said that Ed Milliban
would be a quote noose around the neck
of job creation if he became the
chancellor. Could we see some sort of
market reaction to the downside in the
United Kingdom if we were to see Miban
become chancellor?
>> It's definitely the scenario that most
analysts would would say that leads to a
guilt sell off and it's because of Ed's
position on more fiscal spending. But he
has also outlined that he would respect
the fiscal rule. So I think the the sort
of dramatic Liz trust moves that you've
got in 2022, you're not really going to
get as as long as all the candidates or
potential uh candidates for a chancellor
say will respect the fiscal rules. So
that kind of boxes them in. If if they
don't say that, then you do get the
bigger moves and I don't believe Edmund
has. So I think it's it's the scenario
which leads to weaker performance of UK
guilts. I'm not talking about a 2022
selloff, but the other points I'm
guessing from the union leader, I'd have
to look at the quote exactly is because
of the views of North Sea drilling. And
this is why Ed Miban maybe is a little
bit less likely because the
reindustrialization plans that Andy
Burnham has for the North of England
kind of don't tie in with the net zero
agenda and of course the North Sea
drilling.
>> Jordan, always good to hear from you,
buddy. As always, Jordan Rochester there
of Missou on the UK. Sterling slightly
stronger off the back of these
developments. Guilt yield slightly
lower. down by four basis points at the
front end of the curve on tens this
morning down around three with an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Vonyie Quinn has more. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Iran ramping up the
amount of oil it's sending through the
straight of Hormuz to the highest since
the war began. According to ship
tracking data about 6 million barrels
are on three US sanctioned super tankers
that entered the choke point early
Monday.
Colombia electing a conservative lawyer
as president. Abalardo de la Espriela is
a business owner and lawyer who earned
President Donald Trump's endorsement
despite never having run for office.
Microsoft CEO Satia Nadella is joining
an effort to take on AI giants. Speaking
to the Wall Street Journal, Nadella
criticized the state of the AI race and
said Microsoft is rolling out lowcost
models and considering hosting an ultra
lowcost AI provider in an effort to
drive prices down. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you for the update.
More from Vonnie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, committing
to 2%.
>> What we got out of Worsh in hindsight
was not a surprise given his inflation
hawkish background.
>> He pretty much committed to 2%.
>> We're going to have more uncertainty
about what the Federal Reserve is going
to do.
>> Up next, we'll try and get you some
clarity. Christa Evacore from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
stocks slightly negative. We're down
just a tenth of 1% on the S&P. The
NASDAQ just about unchanged. Some
movement in the bond market. Twos, 10,
30s. Yield starting to drift just a
little bit higher to kick off the
trading week. Up by four on twos, up by
three on 10. Just short of 450 again on
a 10-year. under surveillance this
morning committing to 2%.
>> What we what we got out of Worsh uh in
hindsight was not a surprise given his
inflation hawkish background.
>> The FOMC has to be particularly
attentive to its mandate around price
stability.
>> He pretty much committed to 2%.
>> We're going to have more uncertainty
about what the Federal Reserve is going
to do.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Fresh
data from the Federal Reserve's
preferred inflation gauge due out later
this week as the Fed check Kevin Walsh
reaffirms the central bank's commitment
to price stability. Krishna Ger of
Evacore writing lower headline inflation
from oil is only half of the progress we
think needs to come through to prevent a
Fed hike in September. Kristen joins us
now for more. Kristen, welcome to the
program. I'm pleased you're picking up
on this point. I'm interested by it. How
dependent is this rate hike debate on
what happens with energy and the
straight of horses?
Well, I think it's almost a necessary
condition right now to avoid a rate hike
that the peace deal gets properly bedded
in and oil continues to track lower
rather than moving back up again. You
know, there's a lot more to oil weighing
on the US inflation outlook. We still
have to make sure that the tariffs roll
off. We've got to be very careful
tracking this wave of cost spillovers
from AI capex. And of course, we've also
got to confirm that the underlying
inflation rate is tracking down towards
2%. You need more than oil, but I think
you need oil for sure. And we need a Fed
chair to outline what he actually thinks
about the incoming data. And Christian,
we've not had that. I watched the news
conference last week. I watched Lisa
speak to a series of guests following
the news conference and I stepped back
and thought, are we confusing a lack of
guidance for a hawkish shift? Are we
confusing one with the other Krishna?
So I certainly accept your point which
is that Kevin Walsh was very very
forceful on the Fed's commitment to its
price stability mandate and then refused
to give us any uh operational uh
understanding of what that means. No
discussion even really in detail of the
current data. No discussion of the
strategy. No discussion of what we call
the reaction function. So it's possible
that we may have misunderstood him. But
I think in a sense that might be over
complicating things. At the end of the
day, Kevin Walsh made a very strong
commitment on inflation period. He then
declined to give us any nuanced,
flexible, thoughtful sort of discussion
about policy strategy, about how patient
one might be to see if the data is
moving the right way. I think he's set
himself up deliberately or otherwise in
a situation where he's put a stake in
the ground on inflation and if inflation
doesn't start moving his way pretty soon
he's going to have to hike period or
lose his credibility.
>> Krishna one thing he also said was that
markets need to be a pure input into the
Fed's reaction function and that he
wants the markets responding to the data
themselves not the expectation of what
the Fed will do with that data. Is the
market giving them a green light right
now to hike rates at least once if not
twice this year?
>> So I think there's two things there.
First of all, I very much agree with you
that Walsh wants the markets form
independent views of the economy and
then derive rate views from that. I
think that's a worthy aspiration. I just
question whether that's really what
happened over the last week or so or
whether the market instead looked at
Walsh, looked at the dot plot and said
the Fed's more hawkish than we thought.
We better price in sooner hikes. But
certainly the fact the market is now
discounting a hike by September does I
think to some degree at least uh give
Walsh a pass to move down that path. I
would just caution though that I think
there is a difference between the rates
market discounting a Fed hike by a
certain date a few months in the future
and the Fed actually hiking rates today.
I still think the stock market for
instance would respond uh if the Fed
moves ahead with a rate hike by
September.
>> That's what I was going to ask you next
Krishna. Has the stock market accepted
the rate call that the bond market is
pricing in? And it seems like the answer
to that is not at all. Is that correct?
>> It's not clear the market has really
fully discounted the Fed going. And then
what I would also just add is if Walsh
is going to go ahead, I think he'll need
to revisit this very sweeping refusal to
provide any context and commentary at
all. fine to stay away from forward
guidance, but I think if he goes, it'll
really matter if he's able to
characterize that in the context of a
strategy. Is that something that is in
effect what Pal might have called the
beginning of a limited midcycle
adjustment? Is it the start of a full
cycle of Fed rate hikes? Is it one and
done, which the ECB's toyed with at
times? I think we're going to find that
we do need uh in the Fed's own interest
some color around their thinking.
Krishna, as Jonathan has made this point
a number of times, if Kevin Walsh is
unwilling to give forward guidance in
terms of his communication, does he just
end up outsourcing it to other people
and then do speeches like the one we're
going to hear from today when it comes
to Christopher Waller matter that much
more?
>> Yeah, that's well that's that's
absolutely the problem that Kevin Walsh
will face. Uh and of course we saw it in
miniature already in at the meeting
itself because uh Kevin Walsh took all
the guidance out of the statement that
he substantially controls but of course
we're still left with the dots and so
the dots took on additional importance.
Similarly if he won't talk not just
about forward guidance we really
shouldn't confuse forward guidance with
a discussion of the economy what the
Fed's looking at what its strategy is
what its reaction function is. If he's
not willing to do any of that, then that
gap will be filled by other Fed
officials. Now, I think they may respect
Walsh's call not to provide specific
guidance on their near-term rate
intentions, but otherwise they will
discuss the monetary policy strategy as
they should and we will follow them if
Walsh won't speak himself.
>> Krishna, it's good to see you. Fantastic
breakdown as always. Krishna go there of
Evore credit to Amber who came out very
early and said I don't expect a dot from
the incoming Fed chair Kevin Walsh we
didn't get one to Krishna's point
because we didn't get one we put even
more weight on the dots we did get
Governor Waller speaking later this
morning around 9:00 a.m. Eastern time,
you put even more weight on what he
might say on a future for Fed policy.
>> Yeah. And when you get New York Fed
President John Williams speaking on
Thursday and then uh you know then later
in the day in the week we've got Neil
Koskari. How much are these people going
to suck up the oxygen given the fact
that otherwise we have committees. Are
they on the committees? What do they
feel about this? How do they feel about
it? And do they feel like they've got to
take action because ultimately it is a
committee.
>> Kashkari and Goulby later this week I
believe. Yeah. They've got their own
thoughts on things. They often do.
>> They often tend to be a little bit in a
hawkish direction at least of late. So
how much are they going to come push
back against the way of communication
saying it is important that we
communicate. I mean really it'll be
interesting but to your point he didn't
dot and that's a big deal.
>> He didn't do this for for the record
this was first reported in the Financial
Times. A lot of individuals were
speculating on this and then it it does
mean that the other dots carry more
weight and then to your point you just
outsource potentially the direction of
travel to other people in the committee.
I don't see a lot of Fed officials
basically trying to restrain themselves,
especially after what we've seen from
Steve Myin and now a new robust rhetoric
coming out of Fed officials because they
feel like they have this space to speak.
>> We've got to track a few things this
morning including developments in the UK
and this we could hear from the vice
president in a few moments. The vice
president JD Van speaking at Switzerland
could be in about 4 minutes time. Up
next on the program, we'll also catch up
with Jim Reed of Deutsche Bank, General
Karen Gibson of Academy Securities, the
Republican Senator Dave McCormick, and
Noran Rabini of Hudson Bay Capital.
>> It may be a do nothing Fed for a while.
>> There's not an emergency state in the
labor market.
>> The markets are leaning incrementally
hawkish. We need to be raising rates to
rein this in.
>> With the environment that we're seeing
around rates, that only provides a
tailwind.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your price action looks like this.
Pulling back on the S&P by just a tenth
of 1% following two weeks of gains on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ this morning,
positive by not even a tenth. In the
bond market, yields higher across the
curve. Twos, tens, and 30s. Twos up by
four, tens up by three heading into this
week right here, which includes PCE data
later this week. The Fed's preferred
inflation gauge, at least for now.
>> And this Fed has a 2% target for
inflation. They want to get back down to
it. They think it's unacceptable under
Kevin Worsh that we have been above that
2% target for more than 5 years. And
that reasserted desire to get back to
two has gotten a lot of people talking
about rate hikes. Question is a do you
get rate hikes without some sort of uh
follow on from oil prices going higher.
They are going lower. And number two, is
this all talk as you've pointed out or
is this actually going to come through
in action? The bond market seems to be
pricing in that is going to be action.
Stock market maybe not so much.
>> Two key figures speaking this week.
Governor Waller later this morning,
Governor Williams, President Williams
rather over at the New York Fed later
this week. Are they going to support
where markets are pricing rates right
now, which increasingly is for rate
hikes, supported by a call from Deutsche
Bank? We'll get into that in just a
moment, supported by another call from
Bank of America earlier this morning.
>> If they do, how much further does the
market go? Or does it just turn into
suddenly a stock market story as the
stock market wakes up to the likelihood
that there will be Fed rate hikes?
Ultimately, it is a committee, and we've
talked about this, you've mentioned it,
you and Amarie both, about how if there
isn't guidance coming from the top,
it'll come from all corners. Will the
market now look to Governor Waller as
sort of the loadar of this particular
committee?
>> It's funny how independent this
conversation is of developments taking
place in crude right now. Krishna girl
was talking about it over at Everore is
part of the story not a major part crude
back in the 70s not just WTI Brent as
well. Brent crude this morning at 79.
WTI around 75 in the next few moments
maybe the next few minutes we could hear
from the vice president JD Vance out of
Switzerland. out of Switzerland giving
us an update on his talks with the
Iranians as well as the Qataris and
Pakistanis, the Iranian leadership
that's leaving the delegation left. We
do know technical talks will continue
for the next 60 days as we basically
have this interimm peace deal. The fact
of the matter is what matters to Wall
Street and why you see oil prices coming
down is sent on Saturday talked about 55
merchant vessels carrying cargo, 17
million barrels of oil and then this is
really important. Iran is ramping up
what they're willing to get out of the
straight of Hermoose right now and they
have six million barrels right now on
three US sanctioned super tankers.
Doesn't seem like the United States is
going to be enforcing those sanctions
and they're willing to see a lot more
crude hit the market.
>> Tracking the politics for you throughout
this morning, not just over in
Switzerland, but also out of the UK.
Earlier on about three hours ago, three
four hours ago, we heard from the
British prime minister suggesting that
he'll be resigning, indicating he'll be
resigning, planning to step down,
offering us a timeline. And then we
heard from Andy Bernham, the former
mayor of Manchester, incoming MP,
throwing his name into the ring to be
the next leader, supported by the former
House Secretary West Streeting. So Star
Quits. Looks like Burnham's coming in.
On what timeline? Maybe before
September, perhaps as soon as August, I
don't know. But the market's pricing in
this being resolved pretty quickly. So
you get sterling a little bit stronger,
you get guilt yields just a little bit
lower, and then we can spend the summer
really focusing on what we need to focus
on, which is policy in the UK.
>> How much are they going to raise taxes?
Can they expand benefits given where the
deficit is and given the push back that
you've seen in the pound in the past?
Will he pull a Liz trust that we saw
back in 2022 that caused her to leave
one month later? Is he going to be able
to deliver some sort of agenda that can
provide stability to a nation that has
been in turmoil, frankly, going back to
before the pandemic?
>> We've been managing the pace of
deterioration in the UK for much of the
last 10 years. Equity futures right now
on the S&P state side just negative by a
tenth of 1%. Lisa mentioned it later
this week. It's not just about PCE, also
about Micron. And maybe for equity
markets at the moment, that's the big
story this week. It's the earnings from
Micron, not the data on the inflation
side.
>> Yeah. How much can they increase given
how much the shares have already
rallied? Is the semiconductor one story
one that can continue in perpetuity even
as you get a number of different semi uh
hypers scalers pushing back creating
their own chips starting to talk about
uh being a little bit more selective in
how they deliver their tokens.
>> Micron coming up a little bit later this
week that stock is positive in the
pre-market. Coming up this hour we'll
catch up with Jim Reed of Deutsche Bank
on the hawkish path ahead for the new
Fed chair Kevin Walsh. General Karen
Gibson of Academy Security's warning of
future security concerns as the two
sides work towards ending the war and
the Republican Senator Dave McCormack
with President Donald Trump facing some
serious push back from his own political
party. We begin this hour with stocks
stalling to kick off a key week of
economic data headlined by PCE on
Thursday following Kevin Walsh's debut
as Fed chair. The team at Deutsche Bank
adjusting their rate cut expectations
now calling for two hikes this year. Jim
Reed of Deutsche Bank writing the
following. Even as inflation
expectations fell, the Fed's latest
decision led to a clear hawkish
repricing for markets. The central
scenario sees two rate increases this
year, likely in September and December.
I'm pleased to say that Jim joins us now
for more. Jim, welcome to the program,
buddy. Always good to catch up. Let's
get to the shift, the move towards rate
hikes, Jim, and what underpins that move
for you and the team.
Yeah, look, I think um for several
months now it's clear to us that if you
were looking at the US economy from
scratch, I had no bias beforehand. Then
a rate hike was much more likely uh than
a rate cut. Uh I suppose the thing that
uh prevented people necessarily
predicting that or seeing it is the
institutional bias and the kind of uh
view on the committee that uh we're in
an easy in policy bias. But I think the
the raw data has kind of looked more in
line with a hike than a cut for some
time now.
>> So Jim, we're tracking these talks in
Switzerland. We're hearing from the vice
president JD Vance right now. I can
offer you some of the headlines that
we're getting so far from the vice
president. The talks with Iran were very
good. We've made a lot of good progress.
We've set up a mechanism for keeping
open. Iran has agreed to invite
inspectors for nuclear. This is all very
promising stuff, Jim. And with that,
you've got crude into the 70s. But Jim,
what is curious about this morning and
for that matter the last week or so is
that crude has pulled back and yet rate
hike expectations have firmed up. Jim,
the question we've been asking around
this table is how dependent these events
are in Switzerland that events are in
Washington at the Federal Reserve on the
events that take place in Switzerland.
Um look I think um if you if you look at
some of the measures we look at like the
output gap of the US it's been positive
uh before the war um anyway and you know
if you look at inflation most of the
drivers inflation in the last you know
few quarters few years really have been
more demand side than they have been
supply side so I think there is this
narrative in the market that a lot of
the US inflation has been supply shocks
but for us uh it is a hot economy in
terms of uh demand and and and therefore
uh it makes sense to shift to a uh a
tighter hike in bias. I think
>> right now we're seeing stock markets
fluctuate but not really responding to
this idea that there could be
potentially rate hikes, not really
responding to uh any kind of resolution
in Iran either. Do you think that bonds
and stocks are operating in totally
different regimes right now at least in
the United States with bond markets
looking at the underlying inflation
underlying economy and stock markets
looking at micron and how much their
earnings can increase?
Yeah, look it um rate hikes and rising
yields don't automatically have to mean
weaker equities because if the reason
for rate hikes and higher yields are
reasonable growth expectations and
reasonable earning expectations then uh
you can have uh higher yields and higher
equities uh at the same time. So I don't
think we need to read uh too much into
that. I I suppose where the the problems
will arise is if um if if you have uh
higher rate expectations and people
having doubts about the growth
expectations as a result of it and
earnings. So that would be the real
nightmare but at the moment that's not
the case.
>> Jim, bit of news to share some sad news
Jim. It comes from the late Alan
Greenspan now late Alan Greenspan
according to his wife the influential
economist who served as Federal Reserve
chairman under for president has died at
100. That reporting coming from NBC News
this morning. Jim, the timing of this of
course will start a conversation about
the kind of Federal Reserve, the
institution that he led, the lessons
maybe that Kevin Walsh took from that.
Jim, can you just reflect on that era of
the Federal Reserve and maybe how
instructive it might be for the future
of this institution under Kevin Walsh?
>> Yeah, that's very sad news. Obviously
throughout my career, Greenspan has been
a an everpresent
uh kind of do of um of of the Fed etc.
So that's incredibly uh sad news. Um I I
think in terms of uh the Fed um there is
a battle on how much forward guidance
one needs to offer the market. Obviously
Walsh has taken a different view to uh
previous uh chairmans and I don't think
one is right or wrong. It's just
situational. Um there were there was a
period in the 1980s when uh obviously
Greenspan took over where I think
because of the inflation in the 60s and
70s it was good for the Fed to to lay
their kind of credentials on on the
table and kind of give that forward
guidance give the market certainty get
credibility so I think um the forward
guidance era of the time and of green
span era ex etc was a very rational
uh policy move to give markets what they
were looking for at the time. I think we
may be in a period now where it is more
difficult to give that forward guidance.
There's a lot more uncertainty. So uh
maybe Walsh is responding uh to that and
it could be completely credible in the
same way that it was credible 30 or 40
years ago to give more forward guidance
if that makes sense. Jim, do you think
that the current Fed chair is going to
be more in line and wants to show
himself more in line with the Paul
Vulker and to some degree Alan Greenspan
Fed which ended up hiking rates in 2000
which some people say led to the.com
bust versus say an Arthur Burns. How
much is he trying to rebut the concept
of that Fed and hearken back to the
Allen Greenspan era?
Yeah, look, I I think um Walsh has
obviously always been uh someone who
sees inflation as a key part of the the
mandate and I think he reiterated that
last last Friday. I mean he he couldn't
have been uh clearer that uh it's not
acceptable that inflation has been above
target for as long as it has been. Uh
obviously he is not the sole vote on the
committee. There are a wider committee
and he doesn't have the ability to
completely uh drive it. But I think data
will will drive it. And um I think we're
seeing that shift in the committee now
where more and more dots are leaning
towards uh a rate hike. And look,
committees take time to to kind of move.
They don't move on a dime. Uh usually
they tend to take time and I think we
should see the evolution of this
committee moving now into a more hawkish
uh direction because of the data that
they can see in front of them. Given
that Jim, how much is there going to be
a reversal of some of the expectations
of dollar weakness later this year
because of the odd economy and a Federal
Reserve that seems squarely trained in
the Allen Greenspan frame of mind to
potentially hike rates in the face of
strength?
>> Yeah, look, I think the dollar has a few
different conflicting uh drivers. I
think um interestingly probably 18
months ago I think um the whole world
wanted to be long US dollars and US
assets and while I think the US is still
uh a place where most international
investors want to be long and exposed to
definitely get the feeling that uh they
probably don't want to be quite as long
and exposed as they as they were. So
when you probably do get a bit of dollar
strength, there is a desire to kind of
lighten that uh exposure uh etc. So uh
yes, if if the Fed is moving into a more
hawkish uh picture, it does probably
underpin uh the dollar, but there are
kind of global forces around that are
probably leaning in the opposite
direction. So I think I think uh
probably dollar strength is probably one
to be leaned into a little bit. Hey Jim,
always got to catch up and thanks for
handling that breaking news with such
grace. Jim Reed there of Deutsche Bank
following this news from NBC that the
former Fed chair Alan Greenspan has died
at age 100. Many of you in this market
very familiar with this quote. If I seem
unduly clear to you, you must have
misunderstood what I said.
>> This is someone who didn't really want
to be all that clear and operated
through a tenure from 1987 to 2006. was
nominated for an unprecedented fifth
term as Fed chair uh by uh by then
President Bush. A real question of how
he maneuvered through the market crash
of 1987 as well as the.com bust in 2000
and potentially setting a template for
those who come afterwards.
>> A lack of guidance and centralized
power. Centralized power is the
conversation we'll have increasingly in
the coming months and year under this
incoming Fed chair, Kevin Walsh, new Fed
chair, particularly at a time where he
doesn't want to offer guidance. Is he
able to centralize power when so many
other officials on this committee right
now are so outspoken on where they think
policy should be, not just now, but in
the future?
>> Can you put the genie back in the
bottle? Right now, the market's
responding to the dots. Even if he
didn't put a dot down, people are
responding to the nine Fed uh officials
who did. And ultimately, this is a
market still responding to their
expectation of what the Fed will do, not
necessarily incoming data. That's
anything new.
>> We got a lot of news this morning. Let's
get you up to date on things with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonyie Quinn has more.
Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Yep. Just some of the details
that we got about the former Fed chair,
Alan Greenspan, has died. NBC News
reporting Greenspan's wife of 29 years,
Andrea Mitchell, confirmed his death at
age 100. Greenspan served five terms as
chairman of the Fed under four
presidents.
UK Prime Minister Kier Starmer
announcing his resignation after two
years in the role. Starmer's exit
clearing the way for former Manchester
Mayor and incoming MP Andy Bernham to
try to become Britain's seventh prime
minister in a decade.
Vice President JD Vance saying
yesterday's talks with Iran were good
and that negotiators made a lot of
progress. One of the main goals of
negotiations was to keep the
straightforward moves open. Vance saying
that discussions with nuclear inspectors
could happen today. That is your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey, Vonyie. Thank you. Thank you very
much for the update. Up next on the
program, back at the negotiating table,
Vice President JD Vance providing an
update on talks between the US and Iran.
Those comments happening right now.
We'll get reaction from General Karen
Gibson of Academy Security. She joins us
next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Here's
the state of things this morning.
Pulling back just by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500. For a moment, things were
firming up. Constructive tone coming out
of Switzerland. Some comments from the
vice president moments ago. We'll get to
those comments in just a moment. On the
NASDAQ were just about positive. in the
bond market, reflecting on a new Federal
Reserve with yields higher, but also
thinking about an old Federal Reserve
under the leadership of Alan Greenspan.
According to NBC, citing a statement
from his wife this morning, Alan
Greenspan, the former Fed chair, has
died at 100.
>> After serving as Fed chair from 1987 to
2006, became synonymous with the
Greenspan put, where yes, he would have
a firmer hand when it really came to
cracking down on inflation, but
ultimately would rescue uh assets should
they fall enough. That's the belief that
was baked into markets. really having us
reflect on what the form of Kevin
Worsh's Fed is going to look like given
his first press conference left a lot of
questions, a lot of committees while
working uh through the night and the
market expecting rate hikes.
>> Very vague and a lot of people filling
in the gaps under the new Fed chair.
Let's turn to crude in the 70s on WTI
and Brent this morning. We're down
across the board 79 on Brent, 75 on WTI
under surveillance this morning. Back at
the negotiating table, here's the latest
this morning. The vice president JD
Vance providing an update on talks
between the US and Iran. Vance saying he
will return to Washington while teams
continue to work during the week.
Bloom's Tyler Kendall has the latest.
Hey Tyler.
>> Hey John. Well, we just heard from the
vice president saying that essentially
the goal of this weekend was to lay the
foundation for finalized talks to begin
uh later this week. He said that good
progress was made but added quote there
is still a lot to do. He said the goal
of this weekend was to establish four
main things. one outline this process
for the broader talks. Two, establish
what is being called the deconliction
cell which will extend the ceasefire to
Lebanon. He did confirm that Iran
threatened to walk out of the talks
after President Trump said that he would
strike the country if Hezbollah didn't
stop attacking Israel. Three, he said
Iran has agreed to invite inspectors
back into the country. He says as soon
as this week potentially and four, a
mechanism to keep the straight of Hermuz
opened. Of course, the levels are still
below the pre-war highs, but we did hear
from Sentcom over the weekend confirming
that 55 tankers carrying 17 million
barrels of oil transited through on
Saturday. And new this morning from
Bloomberg News, we got this data showing
that four empty LG tankers linked to
Qatar are starting their transit through
the straight, marking the highest number
that we've seen of empty LG tankers
trying to return back so that these
Middle East exporters can restart again.
And then John, I'll throw one more thing
on your radar from the vice president JD
Vance saying that if Iranian assets are
unfrozen, then the money would be used
to buy American agricultural products,
seeming to allude to the fact that maybe
we could get some sort of deal here,
though he declined to give specifics or
how this would really work in practice.
>> Tyler Kendall on the ground in the
nation's capital. Tyler, thank you. To
build on that, General Karen Gibson of
Academy Securities writing, "The global
and domestic economy should benefit from
the resumption of commerce in the Gulf,
but the future security situation
remains uncertain." General Gibson joins
us now for more. General, welcome to the
program. In the short term, and I stress
in the short term, this market doesn't
really care about the contours of the
detail or the details of a deal or anou.
They just want to see the energy moving
through the straight of m and the energy
starting to move. Not back to levels
we've seen previously, but it's starting
to move. That's the short term. In the
longer term, General, what are you
focused on and what are the flaws in
that thinking?
>> Yeah, so I I agree. In the short term,
these are really positive signals. Not
just the movement of ships through the
straight over the weekend and the higher
number that we're seeing, but also these
early indications from Switzerland now
that those talks have actually begun.
But I think we've baked into the text of
theou some key challenges. specifically,
you know, before the text was published,
we looked at some of the challenges in
terms of interpretation, implementation,
verification, and enforcement and key
spoilers. The biggest one being the
conflict between Israel and Lebanon. And
that's what's baked into actually the
first paragraph of theou where
potentially this previously intrigent
conflict between Lebanese Hezbollah and
the nation of Israel could hold hostage
an ability to continue having
discussions with Iran anytime it heats
up. I think now we are relying on the
conduct of two non-s signitories of
theouou again Israel and Hezbollah and
the way that they respond to one
another's provocations and that that
could hold hostage the entire deal
potentially.
>> Well so far what is Israel's stance on
thisou?
>> Uh Israel is not happy about theou. Uh
first I think there was a disappointment
that it didn't address things like
missiles, drones and proxies. all of
which they live within range of and we
do not. Um and then certainly this piece
about Lebanon is a key challenge for
Israel. You know, Hezbollah represents
both a political party but also a
militant terrorist wing. That militant
terrorist wing is committed in its
manifesto to the destruction of Israel.
Um and and they reside immediately
across Israel's northern border. There
are Israeli troops currently deployed
occupying terrain in Lebanon. That's not
something that Hezbollah is going to
stand for. I think it's a very tricky
situation and as you point out, not one
that Israel is happy about given the
market is really focused on the movement
of energy right now. Are we ever going
back to Iran using the street of Hermuz
as this leverage given the fact over the
weekend the president said the US would
act as a quote guardian angel of the
street?
>> Yeah. So I think you know we can't
change the geography and and Iran has
demonstrated a tremendous what
tremendous leverage it has and an
ability to choke things off. I think
there are a couple of future scenarios.
One in which you know we bring some
potentially lasting peace to this issue
between Lebanon and and Israel uh where
we unlock the straits and and it
contributes to economic prosperity in
the region. But there's another
potential future in which an emboldened
Iran now led by perhaps a more hardened
and powerful Islamic uh or IRGC um the
Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps has a
potential to or perceived leverage that
could cause some of our Gulf partners to
cut side deals with them and really
start to erode in some ways the broader
security umbrella that we've had in the
Gulf region with those partners. Um,
it's a perception of leverage that is
just as important as their actual
actions, if that makes sense.
>> General, can you have negotiations
between two parties that have no trust
for each other?
>> Um, well, you can, but it's certainly
going to be far more difficult. I think
this is where the Qataris and the
Pakistanis play a critical role. We are
fortunate that there are entities like
Pakistan and Qatar that are trusted by
both sides. There aren't a lot of
entities like that. Um, and so their
role will be very important going
forward.
>> General Karen Gibson of Academy
Securities. General, thank you.
Appreciate your time as always. Frozen
assets and unfreezing said frozen
assets. That's the controversial point
in all of this.
>> Yeah. And a lot of it is actually kind
of obscure on purpose. The details still
need to be worked out. Will the United
States unfreeze those assets? How
quickly will those those assets be
unfrozen? to the vice president's point,
will they really go to the Iran Iranian
people? We saw this over the under the
Obama and the Biden administration. They
were supposed to be used for
humanitarian purposes. And then when it
comes to $300 billion fund, who's going
to be funding that? Is that really these
GCC countries that just got hit pretty
aggressively by the regime?
>> A constructive tone coming from the vice
president out of Switzerland this
morning. We'll get the Republican view
in just a moment. We'll catch up with
Senator Dave McCormick as President
Donald Trump faces push back from his
own political party. Plus, Yihara has
your morning movers. Another check on
SpaceX coming back down to worth
slightly. We're down by close to 6% in
the pre-market. From New York City,
you're watching Bloom TV.
Back-to-back weekly gains on the S&P 500
this morning pulling back by just a
tenth of 1% slightly lower after a
really strong finish to the week just
last week. On the Nasdaq, slightly
firmer by tenth of 1%. Switch to the
board and turn to the bond market. Let's
talk about the yield curve. Two, 10, and
30s. Two-year yields at the highs of the
year up four basis points on a session.
42172.
You'll just notice the 10-year yield
move lags that by just three basis
points, just short of 450. Twos versus
10. We've seen some flattening of this
yield curve over the last four sessions
against the backdrop of much lower crude
prices. So difficult to unpack that, but
let's give it a go. On twos at the
moment, pricing in the possibility of
rate hikes on 10 maybe the consequences
of that. Twos 10 and that delicate dance
right now implying something.
>> This is a Fed that seems to have
indicated at least based on market
expectations that it is more hawkish,
ready to hike rates potentially. We're
seeing rate hike calls now from Deutsche
Bank and Bank of America as you've
mentioned. Is that taking away growth
from the long end and ultimately that
seems to be what people are pricing in
on the margins or is it controlling the
long end that might have been getting a
little unored earlier in the year?
>> That's a US bond market. Let's turn to
the British bond market. Guilt and
sterling firming up just a bit earlier
on this morning. Sterling at 13238
unchanged on the session. Yields are
lower by just two three basis points
482. If you looked at that board, you
wouldn't have a clue what was happening
in the UK this morning. Sakir star
announcing his resignation set to be
replaced by incoming MP and former mayor
of Manchester Andy Burnham. Now, I say
set to be replaced because there's meant
to be a leadership coron competition,
but it's looking like a coronation at
the moment given the former House
Secretary West Streeting is offering him
his backing.
>> Yeah, I'm surprised that this isn't
moving markets more. Yes, it was all
priced in at the end of last week, but
we have no idea what the policies are.
This is going to be the fifth prime
minister in the past uh four years. It
just raises this issue. What's the
market paying attention to right now in
this country? Maybe not the elections,
maybe it's the details and frankly it's
the oil market and some of the
macroeconomics that seem to be imposing
themselves on nations around the world.
>> We'll have more on that story for you
later this morning as we count you down
to the cash open two hours away. Let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Yahara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. SpaceX losses are mounting.
Shares are down 5% in the pre- market on
track for a third straight session of
losses and this is coming as more
analysts start to initiate coverage on
the stock. The latest is Key Bank with a
neutral rating saying that they see
plenty of long-term growth
opportunities. But in the near term, the
stock could be volatile uh because
investors are continuing to assess its
worth. Plus, you have this idea that
lockup expirations could add more shares
to the market. Uh moving on to the chip
sector that is still uh that is up this
morning. We are seeing Intel still
riding high up 3% um after President
Trump's comments that it will be working
with Apple on chip manufacturing and
chip design though Intel itself has not
confirmed uh those reports. We are also
seeing the memory names like Micron and
Western Digital up just ahead of Micron
reporting earnings on Wednesday. Uh and
we end on Robin Hood. Moments ago, it
announced a two it is raising a $2
billion through a convertible debt
offering and as as is often the case
with these deals. Investors are weighing
the possibility that those notes could
eventually uh turn into stocks. So, we
are seeing shares down 2 and a4% in the
pre-market and this comes just a week
after Robin Hood announced it is cutting
10% of its workforce. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. More from Yhira in the next
hour. On our radar this morning, the
vice president JD Vance touting
successful talks with Iran.
>> Yesterday was a very very good day. We
made a lot of good progress. We did
exactly what we wanted to do. We wanted
to build a mechanism for keeping the
straight of Hormuz open. It is open. The
Iranians have agreed to invite IAEA
inspectors back into their country. That
is a major milestone for the American
people.
>> Vance saying talks with nuclear
inspectors could happen as soon as
today. but adding the US has been in
constant contact with Israel. Elsewhere,
the British Prime Minister Sakist Star
Dama announcing his resignation.
I will remain in post as Prime Minister
until the contest is complete and I will
do everything I can to ensure an orderly
handover of power.
I will also give my successor my full
and unequivocal support.
Star's departure paving the way for Andy
Bernham to potentially become the
seventh prime minister in the last
decade. And finally, the former Federal
Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, has
died at the age of 100, according to NBC
News. Greenspan served five terms as
chairman of the Federal Reserve under
four presidents, the tenure, the second
longest for a Fed chief.
>> It comes at a rather poetic time. It is
the exit of the second longest serving
Fed chair as we bring in a new Fed
chair, Kevin Worsh, with a different
approach to the Federal Reserve. You've
been talking about how the Greenspan Fed
was one that didn't give a lot of
signaling, didn't give a lot of forward
guidance. Is that going to be the same
kind of loadar for this new Federal
Reserve?
>> And we've heard the Treasury Secretary
talk about this in the leadup to them
naming Kevin Walsh earlier this year. He
talked about how the Fed needs to have
an open mind like the quote open-minded
chairman Alan Greenspan resisted
premature rate hike pressure and the
likes. That's the Federal Reserve this
administration would like to see as we
talk about and think about the late Alen
Greenspan this
>> under the late Greenspan with
centralized power behind one voice. Are
we going to do that again this time
around? It doesn't feel like it. It
feels like that would be difficult for
Kevin Wars to do that if that's
something he's attempted to do.
>> It's one thing to set a precedent. It's
another thing to put the cats back in
the bag. And the cats are out and
they're going to be talking this week.
So, let's hear what they have to say.
>> They're gonna be fighting, I imagine.
We'll hear from Governor Waller later
this morning. Not much of a fighter,
although he's strong enough to be a
fighter if he wanted to be. Seen those
deadlifts.
>> It's ridiculous. That kind of gem is
ridiculous. Puts us all to shame. Let's
turn back to the Middle East.
Negotiators for Thran and Washington
continue building the road map for
reaching a final deal. The president
facing some push back from his own
party.
History demonstrates that giving
billions of dollars to theocratic
lunatics who want to murder us is an
exceptionally bad idea. And and I think
unfortunately the president is receiving
some some really bad advice on this
deal.
>> The Republican Senator Dave McCormack
joins us now for more. Senator, good
morning. Good to see you, sir. How are
you?
>> We're still in the negotiating phase, so
it's difficult to judge a deal that we
haven't got yet.
>> What are your thoughts, your assessment
of the process and how this is coming
together? Well, let me let me start by
just a word on Alan Greenspan who I knew
I know his wife Andrea Mitchell well.
So, I really today we celebrate a great
a great life and uh I introduced Kevin
Worsh at his hearing and Kevin is a big
admirer of Allen's as well and uh he
does it'll be a different challenge but
we have the right man for the job. He's
uh he's uh he's going to help lead the
Fed I think in a time of of of great
change and and uncertainty. Uh with
regard to the Middle East, I think you
have to start with the the beginning of
of this is that the President Trump took
a series of actions which puts us in a
position for a set of negotiations. So
uh enormous progress taking the nuclear
program way back under uh reducing their
missile capability, their launchers. So
uh Iran is in economic difficult straits
and militarily has been been u
dramatically affected. Now, uh, as we
think about thisou, there's three things
that have to be achieved through this
60-day negotiation or which I think are
are critical and the president has has
more or less said this. Number one, the
straight has to be open with and un
unhindered by Iran. There can be no
control. Second, they have to give up
their enriched uranium and there has to
be a path to no nuclear program. We we
may have a step forward on this with the
nuclear inspectors. And the third thing
is needs to be pay for performance. In
other words, each step along the way in
terms of sanction relief has to be only
coming when there's actual movement uh
on the part of the Iranians. I think
it's too early to tell whether that's
happening or not and we'll see as these
negotiations proceed, but the
president's goals were clear from the
beginning and I think that's what we
have to stay true to.
>> But there are two of president's goals
that are not being addressed in thisou
and that's the ballistic missile program
and that's the money to Iranian proxies.
Do you expect the president to somewhere
address these red lines that he has had
for years since going back to his first
term?
>> Well, the first one we've made a lot of
progress on. So, I mean the the the
missile attacks that we've done on and
the the uh the air attacks we've done on
their missile program, on their drones,
on their manufacturing capacity, on
their launchers have been
extraordinarily successful. So, their
capability is a fraction of what it was.
Um how how far along we are I think
remains to be seen but um but but
there's been big progress. The second uh
issue is
uh whether uh they're going to actually
stop the funding for Hezbollah and
others. We've also made huge progress on
taking taking down Hezbollah and Hamas.
Um if we move forward on this path,
we'll see whether there can be a future
commitment on financing of the terrorist
groups. Right now I think the focus is
on the nuclear program. What role do you
see Congress playing in all of this,
especially when it comes to the
sanctions relief that theou addresses
for the regime?
>> Well, it depends. It depends what the
what the agreement turns out to be, but
I I expect Congress will have a role and
for this to be lasting and meaningful.
Uh Congress's need to be involved and
and hopefully have something that that
we can approve leading into the next
administration. I think part of the
reason the Obama deal was ineffectual
was that it was never a signed deal and
was never passed by Congress. I want to
go back to Alan Greenspan for a minute
because this is a really pivotal moment
given that we're ushering in a Kevin
Worsh era that potentially is going to
be very different from what we've seen.
Given where inflation is currently in
Pennsylvania, given what you're seeing
in markets, do you think it's
appropriate to be hiking rates at this
point? Do you think that this is
something that even the president would
welcome?
>> Well, I think I think Kevin was w was
wise in a couple things. You have you
have two big forces uh coming at the
economy at the same time. You have
what's happening in the Middle East. You
have the oil shock and how that's
affecting pricing. uh particularly in uh
energy pricing, but it's affecting it's
affecting everything. We've seen a lot
of relief on that recently, which is a
huge deal for Pennians, working
families. Gas under four bucks makes
makes a big difference. I was just in
Pennsylvania for three days. They they
talked about it. The second thing is
this enormous capital investment uh in
AI and infrastructure, which uh can have
a significant deflationary impact and a
huge increase in productivity. So, I
think it's going to take a while to sort
that through. And I think Kevin's being
very wise. Uh, and the Fed, I think,
will will wait until it has a little
more insight into which way things are
headed. Uh, you made the point about a
single voice. I think Kevin will be an
incredibly articulate voice, but he
talked in his hearing about a family
family fights and the idea that there's
going to be a real open exchange at the
table with conflicting views on the
table. He's got some very strong views
on the data and the data models and how
they need to be updated. So I think it's
going to be a different Fed than under
Alan Greenspan, but but but one more
suited for the moment.
>> Is the narrative that AI is
disinflationary? Does that work with
voters? It might not be working with
markets right now, but does it work with
voters who are saying
>> with AI? The challenge, and I see this
every day, is there's an enormous amount
of misinformation. And make no mistake,
the Chinese are behind a lot of that.
Look at the hearings that are being
conducted uh in the House and the
Senate. There's been a lot of reporting
on this. uh AI and data centers in China
have an 85% popularity. In America, uh
they have about a 20%. A lot of that's
based on misinformation. So, one of the
responsibilities I think we have in the
in the public realm is to make sure
people understand uh AI uh has offers
enormous benefits, enormous opportunity.
A lot of it still remains to be seen and
it has huge risk and it's it's our job
to guide uh this incredible moment of
change in a way that lifts all boats,
make sure that we mitigate uh the
downsides to it. Um so it's too early to
tell, I think, is is the short answer.
There was all these predictions about
huge job loss. Um certainly it'll be
disruptive, but in Pennsylvania there's
enormous growth in these skilled labor,
electricians, welders, you can't get
enough of them. And the white collar uh
job loss has not materialized yet. So,
too early to tell in terms of what the
impact's going to be, but I think
because of the uncertainty that'll
hopefully um lead to um you know,
careful decision-m before we make any
moves.
>> But Senator, the job aop aopalypse that
everyone was worried about apocalypse.
>> Is that Did you make that up?
>> Yeah. No, no, that came from AI
companies themselves, not China. They
were the ones that are saying that this
is going to
>> agree with more. I think I think this go
through every moment of profound change,
technological change in history. Um
there's a doomer narrative which I think
is is very misplaced. I think it's
scared a lot of people. But I also think
we shouldn't be too polyianish. This is
a moment of a lot of change and we have
to guide it. It has huge national
security implications. We have to we
have to be in the lead from a US
perspective visa v China. Um it offers
enormous opportunity in life sciences
and health. Um and on the productivity
and job front I think uh we're learning
a lot as we go. uh literally the job
creation that I'm seeing on the ground
from energy infrastructure from data
centers is just absolutely remarkable
and um and and I live through the uh I
lived through the internet boom and what
we saw there there was some of the same
predictions it wasn't quite as
consequential but there was predictions
about how this would destroy certain
business models that was that was true
but it also created all sorts of new
business models I suspect we're going to
see that as people become more
comfortable with all the power that
comes with AI There's going to be new
businesses and new job creation that
comes along with it in addition to uh
people that build things because people
that build things are in high demand.
It's the great irony of uh of this
moment of technological change. It's
putting more and more emphasis on people
who can actually create the
infrastructure of the future.
>> To Mary's point though, this narrative
has come from the likes of Anthropic.
What's in it for them? What do you think
is in it for them? Well, I'm I'm not
going to speculate on on motivations uh
of any particular player, but I think um
>> we need to interrogate the potential
motivations though of these individuals
that run very large companies that can
have large consequences for this
economy.
>> Well, you could you could imagine um you
could imagine uh efforts to shape the
regulatory landscape depending on what
pos what relative position someone's in.
uh you could imagine that um by
positioning yourself as someone who's
seeking to protect against the the
downside, there's benefit from a a
strategic perspective, from a marketing
perspective. So, I'm not going to impugn
anybody's motives. I I will say I think
um I think a one-sided story about AI is
is really uh both misguided and and
really damaging to America's ability to
lead and compete. And that's not to say
that we shouldn't have a have a fully,
you know, rich and honest conversation
about all the possibilities, but it's uh
it offers enormous potential. And in the
history of humankind, these moments have
created, you know, unbelievable
prosperity. And I think this is not this
may be, you know, in all of our
lifetimes, certainly the most
consequential thing that's happening,
but it may be the most consequential
thing that's happened in humankind. I
mean, this is an amazing the pace of
change.
>> I know you're a free market supporter.
What do you make of this administration
weighing taking equity stakes in some of
these AI companies?
>> Well, I think the um you know, I I'm um
I'm a I'm a markets person. I'm a free
market person, but but I I think uh we
sort of lost the narrative to some
degree and I saw that particularly
during COVID when uh we were dependent
on uh others for semiconductors, for
pharmaceuticals. We had let um our our
commitment to to markets essentially
make us dependent. And so I think that
there are certain industries, certain
technologies, certain capabilities that
we really do need to have control of,
need to have at home. And so the
government playing a role uh in ensuring
that's the case is I think is is is good
makes sense, good common sense. I think
the problem is a slippery slope. So you
have to be very thoughtful about where
those lines are, what really is is a
necessity from a national security
perspective and what uh what is
ultimately um can be can be done and
contributed. quickly. They're talking
about taking an equity stake with maybe
anthropic, but the DoD has it as supply
chain risk. How does this make any
sense?
>> Well, you you have a pace of change
where um new models are being created
that pose uh pose new challenges and new
risks. So, I think the the government is
quite rightly wrestling and the Trump
administration is wrestling with how to
play a constructive role in in the
safeguards at the same time not standing
in the way of this remarkable innovation
which is so critical to our future. So,
it's a balancing act. It's going to take
us a little bit of a while to to get it
right. The thing I always say is um we
shouldn't be setting precedents or
putting any policies in place that we as
Republicans or conservatives wouldn't be
wouldn't be comfortable with the next
team if the next team isn't aligned
ideologically. So, we need to think
about this in nonpartisan apolitical
terms. How should the government engage
in such a way to maintain leadership uh
protect innovation, guard against the
worst impulses with a healthy
recognition that that you know Ronald
Reagan's line about the scariest words
you could ever hear is I'm here from the
government. I'm here to help you. We
need to recognize the government's
probably not equipped to get too
actively engaged in some of these
topics.
>> Senator, one final word if you can. We
brought up Kevin Walsh, new Fed chair.
What do you think people are getting
wrong about this guy? Because they're
already drawing conclusions about what
this Fed will deliver in the coming
months. What do you think people are
getting wrong?
>> Well, I uh you know, he is a he is a ve
very gifted person and u and he
understands markets, but he understands
the Fed. I think he has a a reformer's
heart, a reformer's instinct. So, if you
look at the ideas that he's put forward,
he's been talking about this for years.
He's he's got a big vision, I think, for
the future of the Fed, and he's also
very astute politically. So for example,
the task forces that were set up, I
think is a mechanism for creating a
blueprint for the future, but also
bringing people on board. So reformer, a
change agent, but someone who's going to
do it with a lot of uh political agility
and success.
>> Would you like to run one of those task
forces?
>> I've got my hands full.
>> Is he enough? Thought so. Senator, good
to see you.
>> Thanks.
>> Thanks for spending some time with us.
We appreciate it. Senator Dave McCormack
there. Up next on the program, the race
to fund AI.
AI is a $50 trillion economy because
it's all about human productivity and
roughly in the world there's about 110
trillion uh GDP and about 60% of that is
labor.
>> Norabini joins us next live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York City this morning.
Welcome to the program. Under
surveillance this morning, US firms
racing for cash to fund the AI buildout.
Big tech spending on artificial
intelligence expected to surpass 700
billion for the year from just a handful
of companies. Noryan Rabini of Rabini
Macro Associates writing, "On this
trajectory, UX exceptionalism
strengthens rather than fades. Equity
valuations need not rest on bubble
dynamics and should deliver solid
returns despite episodic volatility."
Noruro joins us now for more. Noral,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Really beautiful moment. We're standing
in with Dave McCormack leaving the
studio you coming in. He said, "You're
no longer Dr. Doom anymore. You're Dr.
Boom. What's changed?"
>> Uh, what changed has been essentially
the most important technological
innovation in human history.
While everybody's talking about AI and
geni, this is only one of the 12 or more
industries of the future. You have AI,
you have semiconductors, you have
robotic automation and humanoid robots,
you have fusion energy, you have
quantum, you have defense tech, you have
space exploration, fintech, act, uh you
have new material science, new
cryptography really is a Cambrian
explosion of innovations. Each one of
them to say powered by I but they're
separate verticals, very separate
industries. Space exploration
exploitation is separate from AI even if
it's fed by AI. So I'm going to see US
potential growth for the last two decade
has been barely 2%. I expected that by
the end of this decade is going to be at
least 4% and the data already suggests
that productivity since COVID has
doubled in spite of COVID. It's already
closer to 2% plus and we've potential
growth higher. There'll be a significant
increase also in equity market returns.
>> How concerned are you about bumps along
the way? Christine Lagard talking about
the financial risk that comes along with
the likes of Mythos or some of the
technological advancements that could
potentially torpedo the financial
system, the payment system as we know
it. I mean, how much is that potentially
a risk on the way to this much more
prosperous future?
>> Well, there are two types of risks. You
know, I wrote a book in 2022 about mega
threats where I spoke about
stagflationary risk, things that reduce
growth and increase inflation. While
technology does the opposite, increases
growth, reduces inflation. Of course,
having tariffs, having restrictions of
migration, having large budget deficits,
playing with independence of the Fed,
rule of law, you name it. All those
things can be actually reducing growth
and increasing inflation. And there are
risks coming from AI uh existential risk
or risk of having financial types of
instability. You know, I've said since
April of last year that tech trumps
tariffs because the impact on growth of
tech is 200 basis points, my view going
from two to 4%. And if you add in a
realistic scenario where market
discipline constrains bad policies
because it did constrain them then the
downside from bad policies at best 50
basis points. So it's a ratio of 200 to
50 4:1 so tech trumps tariff and I said
also tech trumps trumps temper tantrums
too because all those things are
constrained again by market discipline.
Every time is in tallow mode lashes out
then the market punishes him and he goes
back to chickening out. It happened
after April 2nd. It happened after
Greenland. It happened after the war
with Iran. So market discipline is a
very powerful force to constrain that
policies.
>> Do you think it's appropriate for the
Fed to hike once or even twice?
>> Uh it's it's possible. I would say the
economy is going to strengthen.
Inflation probably is going to slow down
because now oil price are not 100,
they're closer to 80 and therefore food
prices, fertilizer things going to
gradually fall even if there be
bottlenecks. So, it's kind of like a a
close call, but I would say it it
doesn't really matter very much because,
you know, the economy is powered by AI
and technology and these massive
tailwinds and they don't depend very
much on policy rates. If policy rates
are 50 business points higher or lower,
I don't think the tech boom is going to
really matter very much. And we already
saw during the war wean that when all
was at 100, the stock market reached
alltime highs in spite of that, in spite
of worries about what the Fed does. So I
would say people obsessed with the Fed
whether it's 50 basis points higher
whether it's right now what's the
difference the key story is tech boom
and that's going to be the most
important first order impact of anything
else
>> that's the headline from this
conversation Noria always fantastic to
catch up with you sir just to beg the
obvious question what does hiking
interest rates actually achieve
>> well and right now stock market seem to
be moving on does it actually slow
anything down ultimately a task force
will answer that question John
>> you want to run a task force do you
fancy that
>> you know he wants to change things But I
would say one important point.
>> You have 20 seconds. So one very quick
important point.
>> He argues that because of productive
growth, Fed funds rate should be lower
because inflation is going to be lower.
But if potential growth is higher, they
could even real short and long is
higher. So it's a bit of a wash on the
policy rates and on the long rates. Nor
well said as always. It's good to see
you. Thank you. Nor Rabini there of
Rabini Macro Associates. Up next, Seash
of Principal SM Management, Emmy G of
Morgan Stanley, James Agelhoff of BMP
Parabar, plus Eric Johnson of Can
Fitzgerald.
We still think tech is the dominant
theme of this bull market.
>> Equity earnings will always drive the
market.
>> The concentration in S&P has gotten
pretty high.
>> There could be a near-term correction.
>> It'll be a broader rally from here going
forward.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. And for our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. We're down a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500. Positive on the NASDAQ 100
this morning in the bond market.
Reopening states side after a long
weekend. Yields a higher by four basis
points. 422 on Tuesday, a new high for
the year on 10 this morning, up 3 to
450. Let's round this one up. Going into
this later this week, PCE data, a read
on inflation, the Fed's preferred read
on inflation, at least for now. Before
we get to that, we'll get some headlines
from various Fed speakers through the
week. And that's going to be an
indication of where they stand on
current policy.
>> Yeah. later this morning or later today.
Fed Governor uh Chris Waller a real
question about how much the coales
around the less is more strategy or
whether they'll give some guidance maybe
behind those nine members that voted for
some sort of rate hike later this year
or at least is the next move. Look, this
is going to be a difficult one and
ultimately how much does the market keep
listening to some of the individuals
versus the head of the Fed that it
clearly had a more or not so clearly
maybe had a more hawkish message. He
didn't push back against the hogishness,
but you raised a good question. Who is
he given the fact that we ultimately
didn't really get a call from that?
>> There has been a perceived shift. I
think we can call it that, right? A
shift in perception given the amount of
rate hike calls we've seen subsequently.
One from Deutsche Bank. They're looking
for hikes this year. Bank of America as
well. Question we've all been asking.
Are we confusing a lack of guidance with
a hawkish shift at the Federal Reserve?
And for clarity, you're going to look
for other officials when the Fed chair
is not providing it.
>> Yeah. The one uh indication that Kevin
Worsh did guide was the sense that
inflation was preeminent and the pre
preeminent concern and that it wasn't
necessarily a dual mandate that was in
conflict that until you get price
stability, you don't have the ability to
create a labor market that is a robust
one. So in other words, there isn't a
situation where you could have that dual
mandate in conflict and he is purely
focused on the inflation uh inflation
side of what the Fed is dictated to do.
Here comes the question about Chris
Waller as well as what we get from John
Williams. How much do they support him?
How much do they speak about their
positivity toward the new approach and
some of the reforms? Because ultimately
that is going to determine how much it
will be a committee led by Kevin Wars
rather than a committee of lots of
different ideas.
>> When's the governor power speech?
Looking out for that one. It's not in
the calendar.
>> I haven't seen it yet. Yeah.
>> Low profile, I'm told. Let's see if he
keeps a low profile or not. Let's bring
up crude WI and Brent this morning.
We're lower by close to 2% at the moment
on brand in the 70s at 79. WTI down one
percentage point at 75. We heard from
the vice president JD Vance out of
Switzerland one hour ago. Constructive
tone coming from him.
>> Very constructive which reiterated what
the Iranians said as well which said
they made major progress when it comes
to the talks. The fact of the matter is
for the oil market we actually are
seeing more barrels hit the market.
Sentcom talked about that over the
weekend. You're also seeing Iranian
crude on US sanctioned vessels that seem
to be openly moving. So more barrels are
hitting the market and also the joint
maritime information center just put out
a security threat level moving it in
terms of the straight of moose and the
Gulf of Aman lowered to moderate
following what's going on. So basically
giving the green light to all these
vessels that have been stuck that it is
now safer to try to go through the
straight of Hermoose and and get out of
this. So the next
>> the barrels move.
>> Yeah. And so the next 60 days this is
where we're going to be. The issue is of
course going to be if we get to the end
of the 60 days and things are really not
progressing on the talks but right now
it is looking somewhat positive.
>> WTI 75 Brent crude around 79. Coming up
this hour we'll catch up with Sim Sha of
Principal Asset Management with
inflation risk pressuring markets. James
Egohoff of BNP Parabar on how the Fed
could hike rates as soon as next month.
Plus Eric Johnson of counterfeit shel
bracing for volatility just around the
corner. We begin this hour with stocks
holding steady as investors await
another key week of inflation data. Sema
shar principal asset management writing
the near-term inflationary implications
of the AI capex cycle remain
underappreciated. Investors can position
for both opportunity and resilience.
Sema joins us now for more. Sema, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Should we also position for rate hikes?
>> I think this starts to come hand in
hand. Uh, you know, we've seen oil
prices come down more than people were
anticipating. That's been very clear. Uh
the thing that we don't think has been
appreciated to this point is that when
you look at the PPI inflation numbers
which as we know were very very hot. The
things that are really driving it is not
just the oil it's actually some of the
capex buildout. So what's going into
data centers uh the shortage that
happens with corporates with um copper
natural minerals those things are all
there and that doesn't look like it's
going backwards. So from our perspective
inflation certainly looks structural
this higher inflation. Um, so maybe it
doesn't have an impact in the next six
months or so, but as you're looking at
over the future, this does suggest
higher rates.
>> Well, let's sit on the sequencing of
things because some economists are
pondering the idea that upfront it's
inflationary or the AI spend, further
down the road, the technological
developments become disinflationary. Do
you see it in quite the same way?
>> We do. So when I say about you know over
the next 6 months as as Kevin Walsh and
the task forces are um debating what's
going on cycllically that means that to
us maybe rates are going to stay on hold
but if you look at over the next year or
so you get to the end of the task task
forces all price have come down but what
if PPI hasn't come down with it at that
point the question becomes uh is this a
story which is more than just politics
and do we need to really focus on the AI
buildout but to your point if you're
looking out beyond the next two two
years five years then it's only to us it
does look more disinflationary.
>> If you have a Fed that is more willing
to hike, at least perceived to be so,
and you have the technological boom that
we've been talking about for weeks and
months and years, frankly, why wouldn't
you then have that much more confidence
to go into US dollar denominated assets
once again?
>> I think there is and I mean, you know,
as we're going around um going around in
in Europe, for example, there has been
real hope, of course, at the beginning
of the year that this was the start of a
new cycle for European markets. The war
put a a halt to that. And even now,
although you're seeing people talk about
the the kind of the catchup, there are
still really long-term question marks
around what happens with regards to
European investments over the long term.
Um there is a sense of real skepticism
and need to see proof that the data
surprises are turning to the positive,
but also that they're able to join in
some of the secular forces that are
going on. So defense, energy, security,
AI, infrastructure, those are really key
in order to ensure that Europe can stand
on a similar stage to the US. Have you
repositioned at all your portfolios
since the sort of pivot from or at least
perceived pivot from Kevin Worsh as well
as some of the earnings that have
continued to deliver in a very strong
way despite some of the skepticism
earlier this year. Has it sort of made
you reallocate a little bit more?
>> We haven't reallocated it, but it is a
debate which continues to go on about
how much international exposure we want
to have. I mean international
specifically with the question marks
about Europe. Uh we long-term believers
in tech. So the overweights have really
been in large cap US uh and parts of
Asia. But we had come into the year
hoping that Europe would do well. We
pulled back off uh off the back of the
Iran more. And this is the point that
we're still not there yet that we're
thinking that we need to see a little
bit more evidence. But also this isn't a
macro story in Europe. Increasingly if
you want to invest in Europe, you have
to pick the right sectors. Where are the
secular drivers? Where is that push
going to be coming through which can
carry stocks beyond uh some of maybe
cyclical news that we could see over the
coming years. It feels like Wall Street
has moved on from the Iran war, but is
that different? Is it only on this side
of the Atlantic and you're not feeling
that really as you're based in London?
>> Yeah, I think that's true. I mean, and
and that makes sense given the
vulnerability within Europe. Uh there is
sense of optimism though that this was
the hurdle that we needed to cross. But
then after the hurdle passes, then you
have to question what else is there
beyond the relief trade. when it comes
to what's left then so say we are in
earnest moving forward does that
excitement come back to Europe and when
>> I think it's potential I think we have
to really be watching I mean the data
has been worse than expected I think
coming into the war uh so it's really
about seeing does the data surprises
turn to the upside and then can we see
the growth coming from governments going
into the right places to this point
there is some disappointment about where
it's been focused and so I think that's
going to be again really key for
deciding how much allocation we want to
have to Europe It's been a busy morning
already getting these headlines from
SpaceX. Let me bring you the latest
development. Widely anticipated, many
people called for this dead offering
from SpaceX just a few weeks following
an IPO.
>> Yeah. So, they really are out there uh
trying to raise as much money as
possible. Last week, they were preparing
for a bond sale of at least $20 billion.
The idea was to pay down a credit line
that they already had and it followed
their investment grade bond rating uh or
company rating from the likes of S&P and
Moody's. Now, they are delivering on it.
It just highlights how quickly they are
grabbing as much cash as they possibly
can. How quickly they're moving to make
acquisitions. You saw the acquisition of
cursor. How quickly they are just trying
to hoover up as much capital as possible
to bring us tomorrows and beyond.
>> Simon, the race for capital. The stock
is down by 4% this morning by the way.
The race for capital. How are you
processing the race for capital? How how
do you internalize this moment when many
people that come on this program are
worried about the supply side of things
picking up just a little bit more?
Yeah, it's a big question mark and I
think that's where from a credit side
you have to be doing the research and so
far look there's very little indigestion
uh our fixed income team are quite
positive uh in thinking that the market
get through this you need to have the
strong macro backdrop still but I think
as we look over the coming years the
question mark around uh potential
uh bubble euphoria does continue to
build up and that to us beyond Europe of
course is a question where how far is
this going to go and what can we do to
hedge
uh against a potential problem in AI
coming up.
>> Well, the issuance is certainly picking
up not just on the equity side, on the
debt side, too, and has been all year
long.
>> It just highlights again how much one
market is not going to really pack the
coffers of any of these AI companies.
They need to tap every market. They need
to tap the debt. They need to tap the
equity. They need to tap the asset
backed market. They need to tap the
international markets. You see them
going around the world. At what point do
we get a yen denominated SpaceX deal? I
mean, at a certain point, you start
looking at this and you start wondering,
okay, at what point will people start to
push back? At what point will it be
enough capital? At what point are they
racing each other to pay the highest
prices for the semiconductors? Welcome
Micron on Wednesday when they report
earnings.
>> And to your point, I think you touched
on the right thing, SpaceX is taking
advantage of a massive equity cushion
that other companies don't have. And
this is the point that I think that
we're all trying to make this morning
that these companies have a moat here.
It's a financial moat. they're able to
raise capital in ways that competitors
just can't get near.
>> This uh should be an issue increasingly.
How do you get potentially enough
competition if you have this sort of
mode as you're talking about with these
Microsoft was talking about Sacha
Nadella he was actually in this Wall
Street Journal article talking about how
he expects there to be another winner
that comes out and pushing back and
hoping that there can be others coming
in of course as he potentially does lose
some dominance versus anthropic and
other models
>> curious obviously right you start to
wonder but you start looking at some of
this and you start wondering exactly
>> how big some of these companies can
actually get
>> do they just keep getting bigger or will
we see that disruptive force coming from
somewhere else?
>> I I think you're going to see a bit of a
bit of both. You know, those as you
said, those big companies are taking
advantage of this moment in time. Can
they continue to do that? Does the
market continue to support this kind of
uh movement? I think it's questionable.
I think this, you know, I'm a macro
strategist, but I can see that this is
becoming a more of a bottomup market
where you have to really understand the
fundamentals for each specific company.
At what point do investors start to lose
interest?
>> Sema, it's good to see you. Not losing
interest here at all. We'll see Michelle
there, Principal Asset Management.
SpaceX kicking off its debut US dollar
high-grade bond offering, widely
anticipated by so many people heading
into that IPO. And here it is following
it. The dead offering closely follows
that IPO from just a few weeks ago.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonyie Quinn has more.
Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Former Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan has died at 100.
Greenspan served five terms as chairman
of the Fed under four presidents. He led
the central bank for 18 years and was
credited with guiding a record US
economic expansion.
Kira Star Dmer announcing his
resignation as UK prime minister.
Starmer's exit, opening the door for
Britain's fifth premier since 2022 and
paving the way for potentially Andy
Burnham to take over after the longtime
mayor of Manchester won a parliamentary
seat last week.
In sports, a jam-packed weekend of World
Cup action. Spain breezing past Saudi
Arabia 4-nil. Germany coming back to
beat the Ivory Coast. Cape Verde
continuing their surprise one with a
draw against Uruguay and TM USA off to a
flying start beating Australia 2-nil to
secure a spot in the knockout stage.
That is your brief John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. No World Cup rant
this morning.
>> Really?
>> No rant at all.
>> What?
>> Okay. But US Open?
>> No. No rant at all.
>> All I can say is Australia plays it like
rugby.
>> I was disappointed.
>> Yes. in FIFA that they didn't lean into
the college football spirit in this
country, the tailgating, etc. making the
games more accessible. But I've been so
happy to see the following thing. I love
many things here or two. Football in
this country. To see the Europeans and
global football fans fall in love with
this country. As all these politicians
worldwide are having their own argument,
forget them. To see them fall in love
with this country, it's just been such a
joy over the last week. To see the
Scottish take over Boston, to see the
people of Boston fall in love with the
Scottish. I think that's been just the
key piece of this World Cup that I've
really enjoyed over the last two weeks.
>> Did you see that Boston ran out of beer?
>> Yes.
>> That was the best part of this whole
weekend.
>> We should invite Freddy on.
>> I mean that that's we could do that.
>> Freddy the German tourist.
>> He's amazing. The
>> the whole thing's just been awesome.
Okay, so no World Cup run.
>> I think that's fabulous.
>> It's a celebration of the moment.
>> I think that they had Bud Light left,
but the but the Scottish said that's not
fear. No, there you go. Despite FIFA's
best efforts, up next on the program,
the morning calls plus Amy Gar of Morgan
Stanley on the outlook for gold as
central banks pile in and Wall Street
pulls back. That conversation up next,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
go through every moment of profound
change, technological change in history.
Um, there's a doomer narrative. This is
a moment of a lot of change and we have
to guide it. I suspect we're going to
see that as people become more
comfortable with all the power that
comes with AI. There's going to be new
businesses, new job creation that comes
along with it. That was a constructive
view on the future of technological
progress in this country. the Republican
Senator Dave McCormack on the program a
little bit earlier on. Some
misinformation. It's basically what he
told us about what this technology will
do.
>> It's not going to take away all your
white collar jobs. And if you want to be
a plumber, well, that could be a really
good thing to it. It's not just a
plumber. It's also an electrician and
other things. And people have actually
written in and said, "Why do you always
give plumbers love?" You know, it's cuz
I recently
>> You specifically mentioned plumbers,
though.
>> Yeah. But look, this this is the the
positive case. Question is just the
narrative, right? The the sequencing as
well. Do we get the inflation before the
disinflation?
>> The supply of plumbers that we could see
in this country
>> because of the next few years, not just
because of you. You can take some
responsibility if you want. Looking
forward to tracking those numbers in the
years to come.
>> Yeah. And the decline in college degrees
as well because right now people who are
going into some of these more technical
fields are making a lot of money and
people with college degrees aren't
necessarily getting jobs. So there's
going to be a recomposition of the labor
market and how we navigate that's going
to be.
>> I'm looking forward to that turn in the
power. that colleges will now have to
justify the expense of a degree and the
change in approach that we might see
from institutions that struggle to get
by.
>> As the mother of children entering that
phase and ready to fork over however
much money, I completely endorse that
view.
>> These colleges with these massive
endowments and then you graduate and
then they call you and ask for a
donation. But I can never get like I
paid the money to get in.
>> Nope. It's forward and all of this, but
you have to endowments for
>> Yeah. Well, that's Yes. This is look,
we'll get into all these discussions,
I'm sure.
>> It's all for data. They want to say x
amount of alumni give back. So, even if
they're like, give a $5, they want to
put your name part of the alumni that
give back. That's the whole It's a whole
stick, John.
>> Okay. I don't quite get thetick, but
it's a stick. Equity futures right now
in the S&P just about unchanged on the
NASDAQ this morning positive by 2/10en
of 1%. That's the price action. Let's
get you some morning calls. First up,
Key Bank initiating coverage on SpaceX
with a sector weight rating, seeing a
balanced riskreward. Elsewhere, Wells
Fargo trimming its price target on
Kroger to 58, calling it a tough stock
to own with a choppy journey ahead. And
finally, NEM more than tripling its
price target on Micron to 1550, seeing
strong fundamentals on high demand and a
robust pricing environment. The stock is
up again. That's the name to watch
heading into earnings this week.
>> To me, this is going to be the key name
going forward. How much can they
continue to rise upwards? Some of their
expectations given how much
semiconductors have outperformed
particularly this name. What has it been
over the past year?
>> I've lost track.
>> I mean, it's been like 800% or something
bonkers as people take a look at this
transfer of wealth from the hyperscalers
to the semiconductors.
>> Vertical. That's what that chart looks
like. Let's talk about commodities. Gold
pushing higher after three weeks of
declines. Investors turning back to
precious metals as peace talks press on
between the US and Iran. Amy G of Morgan
Stanley writing, "Deescalation in the
Middle East supports gold, but a more
hawkish Fed brings challenges. We retain
an upside bias, but the route to 5200
looks more challenging." Amy joins us
now for more. Amy, welcome to the
program. Let's talk about the House view
first. When it comes to rate hikes, rate
cuts, where are you now and what does it
mean for gold?
>> Yeah, look, the the Morgan Stanley House
view is for the Fed to stay on hold
through 2026. So um slightly different
from I guess if we look at the implied
market pricing which is now showing
about 1.6 rate hikes by the end of the
year. Um what whatever happens with the
Fed is going to be highly um
instrumental for the path for gold from
here. Um you know in particular if we
think about the exchange traded funds
which have been a huge part of gold
demand nearly as big as the central bank
buying last year. What we find is they
do track very closely what the Fed is
doing. So I think you know if we are in
a a situation where the Fed is on hold
uh that is a more manageable backdrop
for gold but if we are looking at hikes
I think we probably would expect a bit
more ETF selling to happen from here.
>> Amy the big tailwind as you know over
the last several years has been central
bank buying of precious metals in many
ways going back a few years that was the
tailwind for this bullish trade. How
does that stack up now?
>> Yeah look it's it's I think what we had
in 2022 was really a structural shift in
central bank behavior. So going from
buying about 500 tons a year in the
previous decade to buying now 1,000 tons
a year or so. We had 860 tons last year.
So a little bit lower. Um but we we
still think that kind of fundamental
shift higher remains in place. Um
obviously what we had though with the
Middle East conflict is a bit of
pressure on quite a lot of um oil
importing and gas importing countries uh
either currency or um fiscal balances.
And so what we have had is a bit of
selling pressure and notably from Russia
and from Turkey and potentially others
as well. So short term actually we've
had a bit of a headwind to that central
bank engagement. But we do think
especially if the conflict deescalation
continues, banks will re-engage and
actually it's a much better price level.
Now we've seen already China's PVOC take
advantage of this. So they've actually
bought more gold in the last 3 months
than the previous 12 months combined.
>> Amy, it hasn't just been central banks.
It's also been hedge funds and other
institutional investors that are looking
for diversifiers at a time where they're
concerned about treasuries as a haven
asset. That bid seems to have been
challenged over the past couple of
months given the fact that in times of
stress, gold sold off. How much do you
see that trade coming back on? Or has
gold's image of some sort of ballast of
stability been shattered as a result of
what's happened?
Yeah, look, I think what the market has
come to the realization of here is that
gold is a much better safe haven in a
demand shock than in a supply shock. So,
this was was very much a supply shock
which tends to bring with it higher
inflation expectations and obviously the
subsequent change in bond yields and
rate hike expectations that come through
with it. Whereas in a a demand shock,
what you tend to get is worries about
growth and those bond yields going down.
So bond yields going down is is much
more of a tailwind for gold than bond
yields going up as we've had this time
around. So I think it has kind of
reminded investors that you gold isn't
always a safe haven particularly it's
more challenging in the supply shock
especially if there isn't anything else
going on to support the price. I think
look from here we are seeing I guess a
bit more interest to re-engage. Um but I
think just trying to think about what
that next catalyst might be. Um, I think
we will continue to see gold perform on
these deescalation days, but obviously
we're going to be still quite sensitive
to Fed narrative, incoming inflation
data and and other measures in the US as
well. So, that might be just a little
bit less than last year where gold was
just kind of one big trade up and and
everyone was kind of trying to to to
jump on that bandwagon.
>> Central banks aren't just stockpiling
gold. I mean, countries in general are
looking to stockpile critical minerals
and a whole host of other assets uh that
are potentially crucial in the buildout
of artificial intelligence. I'm just
wondering how much you're seeing that
stockpiling accelerate during a period
of time when potentially there's a
little bit more calm in the street of
Vermoose.
>> Yeah, look, I think this is a theme that
is here to stay and is only going to
accelerate. So, um we've written about
this a couple of times in the last few
months. Um, and when I was kind of
putting together the second note, I was
having to add new sort of new story
stories every single day on this topic.
So, we're getting a lot more focus on
stockpiling. We've heard from China, for
example, that they're looking to
accelerate the buildout of sort of where
they're actually going to store uh
stockpiled materials. We've seen Europe
adding uh tungsten and rare earths and a
couple of others to their sort of
intention to stockpile. So, I think
we're going to just see more and more
here. um it's probably starting in some
of the more minor metals rather than you
know straight to sort of the base metals
but then what we should also remember is
although it's not strictly a stockpiling
strategy the US has built an a very
large onshore stockpile of copper for
for want of a better word and so that is
also having big effects in in the copper
market good to see you appreciate the
update as always go there of Morgan
Stanley with gold this morning at 4211
the high of the year $1,000 plus north
of that we've seen a big move lower over
the last few months.
>> Yeah. And this has come even with a
riskoff move. And what Amy just said is
that gold tends to act as a good
diversifier in times of a demand shock,
not a supply shock, similar to what
bonds are. But then you start to wonder
how much are they actually a hedge that
bonds can't provide if they move pretty
much in tandem with risk assets and with
bond yields. Yeah, to your point, gold
and this whole explosive rally
correlated pretty well with risk,
positively with risk assets largely
because of that shift we saw in 22 at
least that's a factor. The central bank
buying we saw of gold diversifying away
because of the geopolitics of Russia,
Ukraine big factor in the gold story up
until recently. Coming up next, we'll
catch up with James Agoff of BMP Parabar
expecting three rate hikes from the
Walsh Fed. We'll get into that call in
just a moment. Plus, Yahira has some
morning movers. SpaceX once again in
focus, kicking off a debut US dollar
high-grade bond offering
out of control in the commercial break.
Okay, let's get back on track. You guys
done? Good. Futures positive on the S&P
500 just about unchanged on the NASDAQ
this morning. We're positive by a third
of 1% an uplift going into the up and
about 60 minutes from now in the bond
market. Getting a lot of calls now
lining up for rate hikes. We heard it
from BMP. We'll catch up with them in
just a moment. We've heard it from
Deutsche Bank and Matelli. We've heard
it now from Adich over at Bank of
America. They're looking for 75 free
hikes starting in September. That could
make Jackson Hole look very interesting
in August.
>> Yeah, especially if the task forces come
out with some conclusions about exactly
what the drivers of inflation are. That
actually might be the task force I'm
most interested in right now because
there are different drivers and there
are nuances to which rates affect which
parts of the economy and if you have a
multi-speed economy how do they use one
blunt tool to affect that and that I
think is going to be a huge discussion.
Jackson Hole is going to be actually
fascinating. Let's see if it actually is
a speech that he delivers or whether
they decide the communication even goes.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, maybe he decides
that communication is no longer
necessary, but uh clearly uh going
forward, this is this is going to be a
clear focus.
>> Speak when you have something to say,
right? Speak when you have something to
say.
>> The task force, it should be done by
then,
>> possibly. Yeah. Just getting inflation
data from Canada, 3.2%
for the month of May. Year-over-year,
the estimate was 3%. I bring that up
because the inflation story right now is
fairly universal. It's not just unique
to the United States. In fact, what is
unique to the United States right now is
that we have inflation that's above
target at the Central Bank, we also have
growth that's pretty robust and decent,
too. That's something that Canada
doesn't does not have. Something the
Europeans more broadly don't have
either.
>> And it's part of the reason why people
are anticipating rate hikes. Even though
oil prices are going down, this isn't
just an oil price story. And that has
come clear from what we've seen in
markets and what we've heard from
commentary out of Fed.
>> As we count you down to the cash open,
we'll get more commentary from the
Federal Reserve later this morning.
Governor Waller about 30 minutes away.
Let's get you some single names some
morning movers. Yahihara has more. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. Well, apparently a $75 billion
raise was not enough for SpaceX. The
company saying just this hour that they
have kicked off its first bond offering.
We reported last week that it was
seeking to raise at least $20 billion.
Though SpaceX itself has not disclosed
the final uh size of the deal. But what
this filing does confirm is the
investment grade rating that we reported
it had gotten. Shares uh still lower in
the pre-market down 4% on track for a
third straight session of losses. Uh
turning to the chip stocks, they are um
they are on a tear this morning. We are
seeing names like Micron and Western
Digital up in the pre-market ahead of uh
Micron earnings on Wednesday. And Intel
still riding high after President
Trump's comments that uh it is working
with Apple on chip design and
manufacturing though the company itself
uh has not confirmed that. And we end on
a deal we talked about earlier but it is
now official. ABV is buying Apogee
Therapeutics. So those shares are up
nearly 50% in the pre-market. It's an 11
nearly 11 billion deal and would mark
Aby's biggest acquisition in years. John
>> Yahara. Thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Let's turn back to the Federal
Reserve. Hawkeish signals from Fed chair
Kevin Walsh igniting a rate hike debate.
Traders now awaiting fresh inflation
data later this week with PCE due on
Thursday. Bloomberg's Ender Curran has a
preview for us. Ender, welcome to the
program. We've seen CPI PPI have got a
decent feel for inflation in this
country. What are economists expecting
later this week?
>> They're expecting an acceleration, John,
and PC on both the month and on the
year. If you look at core PCE
expectations are for an increase of
around 0.3% on month uh 3.4% it is on
year obviously well above the Fed's
target. The PCE indicator is is the
gauge that the Fed really likes looking
at. Of course the price pressures are
expected to come from like Lisa said not
just oil that will be reflected in
airfares but also healthcare costs are
expected to show up in PCE and of course
along with the portfolio story portfolio
management fees that's linked to the
stock market boom. But if we do get
those fairly hot PCE numbers on
Thursday, it would just cap a bad month
for the inflation data in the US.
Remember the headline numbers came in at
a three-year high for the month of May.
It all it all leans into why the Fed has
taken on the hawkish tilt that it has.
>> Well, Andy, let's talk about that
hawkish tilt. At the moment, the market
is drawing its own conclusions on what
this data means for the future of Fed
policy. the communication we've had from
the Fed statement super short very
condensed took a lot out from the
previous statement from this Federal
Reserve under different leadership and
then we had very limited information in
the news conference in fact the absence
total absence of any forward guidance
across the statement and through the
news conference and uh conversation
we're having up in New York around Wall
Street and is whether we're mistaking a
lack of guidance for a hawkish shift
what does that debate sound like down in
Washington
>> I think that's fair John a lot of the
commentary I've heard And people that we
speak to here make the point that it's a
hulkish Fed, but it's reflecting that
the FOC has turned hulkish. We don't
necessarily know where new chairman
Walsh is on that spectrum because to
your point, he's very reluctant to give
away too much. He doesn't want to signal
where he is on the inflation story. I
mean, for example, several of the
questions last week during the press
conference when he was asked, he
responded by speaking for the committee.
So, we don't yet know. I mean, on paper,
it's certainly a hawkish red. We know
that half of the B half of the FM half
of the uh FMC combined last week signal
in their dot plots that interest rates
could go up this year. The question is
how hawkish that remains as the months
go by. You know the energy story is
changing. That will take this thing out
of the um inflation headline inflation
at the very least. John it, you know,
it's a story that won't become clear for
a few more months here. We'll have to
see how persistent the AI demand story
is on inflation, how services is on
inflation, and the other pockets are and
if that is enough to get the Fed over
the line. But I I agree with you right
here, right now. Yes, it's a hawkish
Fed. We just don't know quite how
hawkish the chairman is.
>> Looking forward to your coverage, Ender,
as always. Thank you, sir. Ender Karen
down in Washington DC. If you want to
find consensus on the committee, just
make the statement really short. The
less you say, the less you need to agree
on, right? That's basically what
happened last week.
>> Yeah. How do you get people not to
fight? Don't actually communicate with
them,
>> right?
>> And then they're going to communicate
anyway through the week.
>> Do they fight with each other? Do they
have a family spat by talking past each
other? By talking to us. Please go
ahead. you can talk to us next.
>> So, Senator Dave McCormack, I think,
made a really interesting point on that
and he's been quite close to Kevin Wars
throughout this whole process of getting
him confirmed down in Washington and he
said look to the news conference and
what he said about that the family spat.
We were talking about the concentration
of power. Would he try and concentrate
things around his view? That's not what
I got from the news conference last
week. That's not what I've got from his
communication so far. Maybe he's open to
the cats in a bag, but maybe doing it
behind closed doors possibly and and
less in public. doing it in a diplomatic
way with these task forces which is
let's get the data let's get an
understanding of exactly what the best
practices are and frankly talking to
issues that people have been talking
about in this market for a long time
does CPI or core PCE accurately reflect
the inflation that people are feeling
who are more tied to interest rates at
certain levels I mean all of these kinds
of things are things that people on Wall
Street talk about you codify it you
formulize it and it doesn't become sort
of this boogeyman of politics and it
becomes something a little bit more
scientific
>> and also as you said there is a task
force for communication on what is
appropriate in all seriousness what is
appropriate to communicate to financial
markets and what is not because he
doesn't want the reliance constantly to
be the financial markets have that
continues to have when it comes to Fed
speed
>> the economists are placing their best
bet right now and they're looking for
rate hikes potentially starting this
year James Algo of BMP Parabar writing
the following while a base case is for
the Fed to raise rates three times in
succession starting in December risk is
building towards an earlier start as
soon as July. James joins us now for
more. James, good morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> Shout out to you. I think I go back to
April, the note you put out and said the
risk was rising of a rate hike here
largely off the back of the shock in the
Middle East. But this call is not just
about the shock in the Middle East. Now,
everyone's coming to you and kind of
overshooting. They're calling for hikes,
but maybe really quickly. Where are you
now?
>> So, we have we have our rate hikes
starting in December. We have three
after uh we have two after. So, we we
tend to think that we're going to lift
another page from the late Alen
Greenspan's playbook. Last year the Fed
cut rates three times saying the economy
is weak. U unemployment rate was going
to rise. Inflation was going to slow is
not where we're at. It's just like after
98 in LTCM. We think we're in 99 now.
The Fed is going to begin by taking
those rate cuts back, getting monetary
policy to a less stimulative stance and
ensuring the labor market doesn't
overheat, ensuring that we don't have a
little bit too much of a good thing.
>> So characterization is important here.
Are you suggesting they'll say this is a
removal of the insurance that we took
out over the last year, the last two
years, as opposed to actively starting
the tightening process, a tightening
cycle?
>> No, we think if we deliver these three
rate hikes, the monetary policy will
move to a to a neutral stance. Right
now, we think the economy is doing
really well in part because there's so
much stimulus going in. We have
stimulative monetary policy, stimulative
fiscal policy, stimulative financial
conditions, and the stimulative effects
of the AI boom on demand. Uh we think
that the Fed is looking at this and is
starting to see inflation being a bit
sticky, particularly in core. It's
seeing the labor market start to tighten
up and it's seeing growth that doesn't
require this much policy insurance. And
we think they'll start to to begin a
gradual normal monetary policy response
to that
>> process and communication. Typically,
we'd wait for a signal. They would
remove the easing bias. Yeah.
>> They'd go to neutral. Then they'd
introduce the hawkish bias. And then
somewhere down the line, they'd hike
interest rates. Why do you think that
might have changed? Look, we think there
was a lot of signal in this last
meeting. You just it's like it's like
green spin. You have to just listen a
little bit more closely to hear it. In
this case, you didn't have to listen
that closely. The last sentence of the
statement, the committee will deliver
price stability, not some mealymouth
formulation that also talks about the
labor market. Not saying, well, we think
that inflation is transitory. We'll
deliver it, but it's going to come
anyway. The committee is fed up with
inflation. It does not want to be seen
as dovish. Doesn't want to be seen as
having an imbalanced reaction
functioning favoring labor anymore. It's
taking advantage of the opportunity
presented by the leadership transition
to signal a shift in reaction function.
Now look, we need to see follow-through
on this, but there is the possibility
that with a shift in perception along
with some policy realignment, inflation
could get back down all the way to 2%
over time.
>> Can they hike rates before the task
forces are done?
>> So we think the task look this is
another form of soft very soft forward
guidance. We tend to think that the task
forces conclude around the end of the
year. We have the midterms between now
and then. It's a lot of time to think, a
lot of time to communicate. That's why
we have December in our in our focus.
Why we still have it there. Now, this is
a much more hawkish Fed, particularly
last week than we than we had
anticipated. The market is pricing
September. As we noted in our note,
there's this mounting risk they move
faster than our December call. But we
tend to think that Wars is signaling
very softly and he's not committing
himself to it that if the data allows
him to wait a little longer so he can
get his act together, start building his
processes, building his framework, that
he would prefer to do that. Do you think
the financial conditions are essentially
greenlighting any kind of rate hike in
the near term given the fact that even
with a more hawkish Fed, the equity
market is hanging in just fine?
>> Look, there's a big difference between
hiking in response to inflation and
hiking in response to really strong
growth. Hiking in response to strong
growth and an optimistic outlook and a
tightening labor market. That's just
it's reinforcing the messages the equity
market is already pricing. So our view
is the Fed can deliver some modest
policy tightening, not derail the rally,
not derail the expansion. Now, the risk
is you get into 99 and 2000 where the
Fed does the initial three and then it
does a bunch more and it does them super
fast and does a lot of and there's just
so many that ultimately derails the
expansion. So, it's a risk that we're
watching. But with just with three just
aimed at recalibrating the policy
stance, we're not that worried.
>> Are you expecting the Fed then to come
under more attacks from the White House?
>> Look, it's that's almost unforcastable
what what's going to happen on Truth
Social. Ultimately, what we think is
that the Fed is going to follow its
traditional reaction function. It's
going to focus on 2% inflation. It's
going to focus on the labor market. It's
going to mind its knitting. And that
ultimately it's if it needs to send the
message to the White House, look, this
is the right thing to do the do for the
economy, then that that's what they're
going to do.
>> Saying they will implies they haven't
now under Governor Pal then chairman
Pal. Why didn't they? Why is this
committee all of a sudden shifted under
the guidance of one man?
>> Look, we don't know. And so we're going
to have to we're going to have to is it
is a sharper pivot than what we had
expected. So this is Wars is not
explaining it to us in great detail
where this pivot is coming from. So
we're going to look to other policymaker
speeches. I think we're in particular
going to look to some of the hawks. So
we're going to look to Beth Hammock.
We're going to look to Lori Logan. How
much is it that you're asking for? You
didn't descent here. It was a 12-0 vote.
So what is it? What do you What did you
ask for? What did you get? Um how big is
this pivot? How rapidly is it occur?
>> That was the right question in the news
conference, by the way. Essentially,
very simple terms. Why haven't you hiked
given everything you've said and what
you've written?
>> Yeah, that was a great question. And
ultimately he wasn't going to give
forward guidance. He wasn't going to
give more explanations for it. But it's
not just for Fed uh Fed Chair Kevin
Walsh. That really is a question for
Chris Waller. That is a question for
what we hear from the New York Fed
president. It's what we hear from Neil
Kashkari later. These are all questions
they have to answer. Why such a big
pivot now under this new Kevin Noir?
>> If indeed there has been a big pivot,
there'll be some debate about that still
through the summer.
>> Well, the dots did imply some sort of
pivot from the previous read. So that I
think they do have to answer because
that does indicate the move that to
moving to this was the first time that
they moved away from the easing bias and
suddenly you've got nine of them saying
that the next move is going to be a
hike. It gives you a sense of how big of
a pivot it really was.
>> Do you see the dots as a forecasting
exercise or a communication exercise
designed to title financial conditions
>> because it can be one and not the other.
>> Yes.
>> Can be both of course. Sure.
>> I mean ultimately it's being used as
both because right now if you talk to
economists they'll use a dart board and
a dart to give you a sense of where the
economy is going to be at any given
time. And it changes a lot and a lot of
Fed officials are pretty humble about
talking about that. They can give their
best guess which is a reason why, you
know, Kevin Os talked about the pencil
with a big eraser and they would go in.
It's
>> the fact that they haven't signals to me
they're reluctant to do so which is why
you've got December and not July. Now
others have the summer. I get that. But
I still sense of reluctance from these
guys.
>> If they're signaling that there's
potential for a rate hike and it's
getting priced into the market and the
market's fine with it, at what point why
wouldn't they? and how much if this
truly is if this truly is a Federal
Reserve that looks at market conditions
as an input into their data set, why not
say we're getting the green light right
now? Because nobody's that concerned
about hiking rates.
>> Well, this is a Christian G point over
at Ebicoor that maybe they get cornered
by their their own communication. Is
that your sense of things?
>> Look, the dots were invented after the
after the Alen Greenspan era. So Alan
Greenspan was a legend even when he was
in the seat. It was very hard to
disagree with them. Ben Berni came in
and he wanted to create a more
egalitarian fed one where more voices
could be heard. And so the dots were a
way of signaling that. So a way of
implementing that. So now what we're
hearing from the broader group on the
FMC is that they people want to be want
they want to deal with the inflation
problem. They want to take a step in
that direction. They want to deliver at
least some policy tightening and that
that you know that's Kevin Worsh went to
the podium. He made fun of the of the
process. It's not perfect, but it wasn't
like he pushed back against the message.
He knew that he would came onto that
podium the market would take a hawkish
message from that. And he didn't push
back. And the market's not pushing back
either. Ultima is up a 30-year bond
rally. So if we're seeing evidence that
financial conditions in the equity
market are stable, financial conditions
are actually easing in response to the
to hawkish Fed in the long run. It's
telling you that the Fed's getting a
green light for markets.
>> It was a time when they also wanted to
signal low rates forever and we're not
in that time anymore. James, it's good
to see you. Thank you. Thank you. James
Agoff there of BMP Parabar. Let's give
an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. SpaceX tapping the debt
market. Elon Musk's company selling
investment grade bonds for the first
time in what's expected to be the start
of a massive borrowing spree. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg it's
seeking to raise at least $20 billion
from the offering.
Chevron signing a 20-year deal with
Microsoft to provide natural gas fired
power for a proposed West Texas data
center. The power plant is expected to
be operational by 2028. Microsoft is
doubling down on building data centers
to compete with Alphabet and Amazon.
Toy Story 5 topping the weekend box
office. According to studio estimates,
the Disney Pixar film made $160 million
in domestic ticket sales. The latest in
the series of movies about The Secret
Life of Toys comes 31 years after the
original Toy Story first landed in
theaters. And that is your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Some things make you feel old. Funny,
thank you. 31 years since the original
Toy Story. Where has that time gone?
>> That's so sad. I mean,
>> are you a Woody fan or a Buzz Lightyear?
I was never really big into the movies
>> to be honest. I know that probably makes
me an exception but I remember when they
came out sure 30 plus years ago.
>> I remember that too. They became a
staple and you know honestly the
nostalgia that is absolutely banking for
for Hollywood these days really is
notable.
>> Yeah. People want it back, right?
>> They want everything back from old. They
want it from our times. Yeah.
>> Good times.
>> Yeah.
>> Up next on the program we set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, Eric Johnson and
Cana Fitzgerald on navigating choppiness
ahead in the equity market. Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
The economy is powered by AI and
technology and these massive tailwinds
and they don't depend very much on
policy rates. People obsessed with the
Fed whether it's 50 basis points higher,
whether it's right now. What's the
difference? The key story is techboom
and that's going to be the most
important first order of anything else.
>> Laurian Rabini of Rabini Macro
Associates. It's not news. This shift
has been developing for a while, but Dr.
Doom is now Dr. Boom and has been for a
number of years.
>> He was Dr. Boom last year in April and
everybody else was saying now we're
getting to be Dr. Doom and he was right.
So kudos to him.
>> Futures this morning just about
unchanged on the S&P 500. Positive on
the NASDAQ up by a third of 1% as we
count you down to the opening bell some
40 minutes away. Your events this week
stacking up as follows. At 3:30 Eastern,
we'll hear from the president signing
executive orders. Look out for that,
particularly given the talks over the
weekend. Look for some comments on the
latest between the US and Iran and their
negotiations. Looking ahead to tomorrow,
PMI data, FedEx results. Wednesday, the
big earnings report, Micron. Thursday,
PCE data. Another round of jobless
claims. Friday, UMIC consumer sentiment.
Let's get back to the market. Stocks
hovering near record highs. Eric Johnson
of Cander Fitford Gerald writing, "We
remain bullish on equities, but think in
the near term we're going to enter a
period of consolidation and likely
increased volatility." Eric joins us now
for more. Eric, welcome to the program.
>> Thank you very much.
>> What's behind that increased volatility?
>> So, a few things. Um, you know, number
one, new Fed share. So, we we know the
data. If you look at the when a new Fed
chair um starts, a lot of times you'll
see draw downs over the first, you know,
one, three, and six months due to the
uncertainty of the new chair. we have a
lot of uncertainty in in this case. Um
the second thing is around AI. There are
a lot of variables that are emerging. So
one of them is around open- source
models as they start to pick up share.
Um another is going to be around uh
token maximizing versus token minimizing
and how those trends uh look. The AI
capex spending. So, we've seen all the
benefits, right, of the trillion dollars
a year of spending that's helping all
the sellers into the capex. Now, it's
got to be it's got to be paid for. So,
it's been paid for by cash flow and cash
on hand, but that cash is declining. And
so, now it's the reckoning of having to
pay for it with debt and potentially,
right, we saw from Google, potentially
new equity. So, and then the overall
equity supply over the next year that
we're seeing from IPOs, from lockups,
etc. as buybacks start to decline. So,
there are a number of headwinds. Um,
however, what we all know is that
earnings estimates continue to rip
higher due to this I AI capex buildout.
We know the economy is very strong, full
employment. Um, so there's a lot of
tailwinds. There's animal spirits with
retail, but there are these headwinds
that are starting to match up that I
think is going to cause this volatility.
>> What I hear from you though, Eric, is
the dominant risk, potential risk comes
from within tech, from within these
companies, not from outside.
>> That's exactly right.
>> It's kind of interesting to me. We're
not talking about the Federal Reserve,
Kevin Walsh. We're talking about
something else.
>> The the AI capex trajectory, I think, is
far more important than what's going to
happen with the Fed. Um, if you look at
the magnitude of this capex, right, it's
750 50 billion going to over a trillion
next year. You know, capex in the S&P
500 has doubled over the last few years.
And if you have someone walk in and say,
"Hi, I'm going to spend a trillion
dollars and all you companies are going
to sell into it and make all this
money." That is going to be a very
powerful force. And that is the driving
force around why the S&P 500 earnings
are growing at 28% this year. Um it's
not just some you know great economy
random thing. It's it's due to this
buildout and the selling into it. And
the the capex spenders right are
actually right depreciating over five
years. So their net income is also
showing um you know okay numbers despite
all the spending.
>> Problem is someone's got to pay for it.
And right now, uh, Hedgei put out a
great chart showing that share buybacks
just aren't happening for a lot of the
big tech players because they're using
their cash for some of that capex. At
what point is that technically going to
challenge the rally in the equity
market?
>> So, I think over the course of of the
next year, I think it's going to be, you
know, an issue. One of the things that
as you said has been a tailwind for this
market for years has been the trillion
dollars of buybacks, a shrinking amount
of supply of of equity, a shrinking
number of public companies and that
mismatch has been very very powerful.
Now if you look at it the hyperscalers
um a Google as an example right has been
buying back stock. they just issued um
you know Amazon, Microsoft, Meta, are
they going to be buying back stock when
when free cash flow is where they are
and so that's sort of coming down at the
same time that equity supply is is incre
increasing that could be a tricky
combination and the individual investor
is not set up to take on all this
supply. We looked at money market cash
and checking accounts relative to the
size of the capitalization of the
overall uh market of equities and it's
at historic lows. It's actually equal to
March of 2000 in terms of those cash
levels relative to the size of equities.
Um and so the the ability to absorb all
this I think is going to become
challenging. timing that um is is very
difficult because a lot of this supply,
right, is not coming tomorrow. There
it's going to take time. There's going
to be lockups that need to expire over
many uh over many months. So, we'll see.
>> Watch out. It's a major consideration
for sure. Eric, it's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Eric Johnson there of
Caner Fitzgerald. Coming up tomorrow,
we'll catch up with Julian Emanuel of
Evore, Neil Data of Ren Mack, Phil
Caparelli of JP Morgan, Katemore of City
from New York City. Great to be back
with you. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. For our audience
worldwide, this was Bloomberg
Surveillance.